another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , the complexity of which defies analytical consensus . the middle east will remain a central pillar of the world ’s energy for decades to come . but no amount of fancy footprints , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can diminish that region ’s importance . do the region ’s crises stem from israel ’s lack of peace ?
with china assuming that course , india – outside the npt but with 100 weapons of its own – feels the need to add to its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes even more determined to try to stay ahead of india . with russia and the us holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any of the other nuclear-armed states to cut their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the big two make further drastic cuts to theirs . this logic of deterrence produces a snowball effect , and it needs to be achieved . china shares russia ’s concerns about america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority , increasing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile .
two centuries later , that was no longer the case : in the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution spread were , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence . how , exactly , did these accomplishments occur ? what were the small differences that turned out to matter so much ? the early industrial-era economic accomplishments emerged , despite losing a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . they emerged despite a tripling of the population , which places an extraordinary malthusian push for an economy underlying its natural resource base , and despite the mobilization of an unprecedented proportion of national income for nearly a century of intensive war against france , a power with three times britain ’s gdp .
the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to be managed , not the existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers imagine . may is in no mood to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though facing re-election next year , the increasingly desperate french president françois hollande says he is ) . may , as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of a political strategy . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , is running political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . her government has formed a department of international trade , which will be responsible for drawing on trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission has previously settled such arrangements ) .
venezuela has tried to finance itself with assistance from the china development bank , which does not impose the kind of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . the chinese have demanded that venezuela do nothing to increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is a pity . instead , the cdb lends itself to secret terms , with its use that are undisclosed and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese firms in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . they are , in fact , merely calling for more oil as collateral .
one television advertisement has said all of the tea party-driven cynicism of the us campaign . it featured two obama clips saying , “ i ’ve ’ve ’ve ’ve been working with republican senator dick lugar to pass legislation , ” and to “ what i was reach out to senator dick lugar . ” the context has not been explained , but what obama has said fulcrusted is this : “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that will secure and destroy some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded weapons , ” ” ” ” and “ what i have reached out to senator dick lugar , a republican , to help lock down loose us nuclear weapons . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty to replace a fragile international moratorium can not come into force without america ’s senate ratification . with lugar ’s defeat , and the simultaneous exit of last republican moderates like senator olympia snowe of maine , poised to put national interests ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties .
the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , always feared a betrayal . they called their crime izmena rodine – a betrayal of the motherland – and married this high moral language to minor transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally . perhaps he will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but his betrayal generates little resentment . insecure states are quicker to feel acts of treachery . secure states tend to forget about treason .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs , which has similarly been forced on people – and even used to torture prisoners . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs , and tranquilizers , the ect has instant organic effects . while few people now receive ect involuntarily and , in all cases , a large and growing number get antipsychotic drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , patients , patients with alzheimer ’s , and host of others whose lives are shortened by treatment , with no effort undertaken to seek their consent . while ect ’s opponents believe that it causes brain damage , this is difficult to prove . but , while ect rarely makes clear , if ever , clinical evidence of brain damage , and has not been shown to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in the form of tardive dyskinesia , and other syndromes .
new york – singapore ’s trade negotiators recently failed to finalize an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have another chance to finalize what would be the world ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . their economic clout is matched by their aspirations ; the talks go well beyond traditional trade issues , which account for just five of the proposed chapters in 29 , and consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues to influence many millions of people – and not always positively . but , given serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complex question . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and ten other pacific rim countries , with combined annual output of around $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp .
open education promises to turn the current textbook production pipeline into a vast dynamic knowledge ecosystem that is in a constant state of creation , use , reuse , and improvement . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interactions among students and teachers worldwide . the exciting thing about open education is just the beginning . late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to reach a consensus on open education ideals and approaches , and committed to them in the cape town ’s open education declaration , which was officially released on january 22 . open education promises to provide children with learning materials tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ off rack ” materials , alongside quicker feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content and improvements .
in other words , hazy language is needed to obscure unsavory realities . under what conditions would the american people use its capabilities ? massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacifying , ” ” and ethnic cleansing is a “ transfer of populations . ” nearly 70 years ago , when george orwell examined the tendency toward ambiguities , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and writing are largely the indefensible ” defense . in other words , hazy language is needed to obscure unsavory realities .
brussels – to many people in the west , china seems to have gone from a country that “ keeps a cool head and maintains a low profile , ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . putting the australian mining executive behind bars in the next ten years , squeezing out google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting a middle level official wag his finger on us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not , after all , the best way to convince partners of your constructive intentions . nor is it reassuring to remember that , up to now , china has been doggedly watering off the sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pillaging western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . but the point of rolling back this litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it demonstrates the dilemma that the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ normal ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of millions of people that it still needs to pull out of poverty . the chinese leadership seems to be aware of this dilemma , and does not , in fact , are eager to be drawn into fierce competition with the west or its
yet the us has succeeded in ameliorating it – not only normalization of relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . this was achieved , first and foremost , through dialogue . fortunately , the experience of the 1980s suggests a way forward . the international situation at that time was no less dangerous than it is today . if this continues , europe will lose its influence in world affairs , and gradually become meaningless .
but confronting it will require us to reinvent antitrust in the digital age . and , once these firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new economy allows them to pursue anti-competitive actions that prevent actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . this heightened market concentration is widening the gap between firms that own robots ( capital ) and workers replaced ( labor ) . and , as mit economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen show , america ’s industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . these factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms that have a diminishing need for labor .
just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to european fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration . and whom are we to thank for all of this european progress ? do we owe it to the wisdom of european political leaders , particular italy ’s “ merkozy ” spain and french president nicolas sarkozy ? unfortunately not : progress resulted almost exclusively from much-maligned financial markets .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the american dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing industry could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and thus harming us exporters . forecasts for us economic growth have been revised downward considerably since the federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . demand remains depressed by the overhang of debt accumulated before 2008 . indeed , this pre-2008 us debt has not gone away ; it has simply been shifted across sectors and countries . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the global nature of the problem that we face .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken a transatlantic alliance that has long seemed unshakable . with trump , the world is becoming accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” the eu will soon collapse , it predicted , with a succession of post-united kingdom countries . the united states , its position suggests , would be more than fine .
russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a wide range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for the mining and hydrocarbon sectors . all of these industries will benefit from the tremendous demand growth in large markets , such as china , india , and india . but achieving long-term growth , led by high-tech industries , requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign actors . moreover , a social and political environment must be conducive to a high-tech labor force , providing an attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and fostering entrepreneurship and creativity . those that have survived have so only barely , with greatly reduced output going primarily to the ex-soviet market .
yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which means that there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , the right kind of public investment is likely to spur more private-sector investment . to be sure , the situation is not cut and dried up . a return to public investment is affected by the presence or absence of complementary reforms that vary from country to country . and there is some potential for abuses , with expenditures misclassified as investments .
in germany , chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is both respected or resented for her austerity policies , not for her gender . character , not gender , drives the narrative . the central issue in these tv programs is not that women ’s primary roles play . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is under attack for mismanaging the economy and america ’s banking interests in forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman . outside the un , women have already reached the highest point .
the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising fed chair and regional federal reserve bank presidents , has agreed that the federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % , and can be expected to stay there or decline even further . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance unambiguous , and therefore uninformative . the fed warns that it might raise the federal funds rate if the fed predicted annual inflation rate rises from its current level of slightly less than 2 % to more than 2.5 % . with the unemployment rate now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until the end of 2015 . bernanke has stressed that the two policies are on separate tracks , reacting to different indicators of the economy ’s performance .
during the last 20 years , social inequality has grown threefold . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that afflicts many of the oil-exporting countries . and , with housing , health care , and education less accessible now than at the end of the 1980 ’s , his political program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital – a key problem holding back russia ’s economy . in the us , two million educated professionals have recently emigrated from russia . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia alone is just 6-10 % of that in the us , which is why the economy struggles even as oil prices , its main exports , are peaking .
harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakout ; this , too , is not precluded by the accord . iran should likewise be told that the american and its allies would undertake a preemptive military strike if it appears to be attempting to present the world with a fait accompli . what matters is that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) let iran know that any action to place itself at a field of nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by the accord , will not be tolerated . meanwhile , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s neighbors ’ concerns , several of which are tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s potential breakaway region of 15 years by pursuing its nuclear program of its own . the world has erred in allowing north korea to pass the nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the currency ’s underlying strength . for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election only because trump has promised to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . this will boost near-term economic growth , and inevitably push interest rates up . in the context of the years , rather than just the next few weeks , trump ’s election will almost surely turn out badly for greece . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – particularly a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling .
as home secretary , she often won battles against other ministers , simply by refusing to express her views , or even to appear at meetings until minutes before a final decision had to be made . but this happy outlook for may rests on one crucial premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . european leaders could easily neutralize may ’s no-deal brexit , and thus eliminate any need to offer the concessions she claims . to do that , they must understand the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and delay . throughout her political career , may has used procrastination as a winning strategy .
the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . and it ranks 58th for institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to just 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , compared to the oecd average of 90 % . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to the escalating north korean nuclear threat . in recent months , north korea has fired a series of ballistic missiles and conducted a nuclear test , spurring an exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
thus , if russia continues along an imperialist line , its democracy will be at risk . it is not sustainable for the peoples of smolensk oblast to live under constitutional democracy , while grozny ’s citizens and sukhumi are victims of wanton shelling and destruction . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet state fodder on resources devoted to expanding russian influence in the non-russian republics . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of american slavery , shows that as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to members ’ colonial subjects or certain groups . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and chechnya reinforces the reactionary forces that oppose liberal democracy .
from a japanese perspective , there was an `` account of victimization , '' in which `` atomic bombs become the symbol of a particular type of suffering -- rather like the holocaust for jews . '' at the hiroshima museum itself , a victim role has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . neither the japanese government 's responsibility for initiating and continuing the war nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war or subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule is adequately acknowledged . neither the japanese government 's responsibility to initiating and continuing the war nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war or subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule is adequately acknowledged . whether we identify with heroes or victims , with plane pilots that put an end to wwii , or with a passive population subjected to atomic annihilation , we are always rooting out with `` innocents '' '' '' and `` good guys .
the intended beneficiaries of such actions should be defined as rights-holders . this removes the stigma of charity , empowering them to the victims . accountability mechanisms should be established , enabling victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . the framework also should include an indiscriminate requirement , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups – not just the well-connected , literate , and regime favorites , and not just groups for which quick wins can be achieved . instead of being helped because they have unsatisfied needs , remedies are being granted , because their rights are being violated .
the most important problem that needs to be resolved is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . first , american firms that want to do business in china are obliged to have a chinese partner and to share their technology with that firm . it is that the chinese are stealing us firms ’ technology and using it to help chinese companies compete with those same firms in and around the world . that compulsory technology sharing is explicitly forbidden by the world trade organization ’s rules . the chinese are doing this in two ways .
though the world ’s newest country has emerged from the bitter civil war between christians and muslims , the independence referendum has received 99 % support . but the battle within islam is no satisfactory or sufficient explanation of the state of anarchy that we see in the place like south sudan , whose 11 million people have gained independence just over three years ago . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . it is ripping countries and regions apart , blurring people to travel halfway around the world to join jihad , and threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews , and others . yet today , 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted from the bitter civil war between islam and everything to do with struggle along ethnic lines to control the country ’s resources .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , started out as a program by the us treasury department purchased problematic , largely mortgage-based assets directly from financial institutions . with that one unilateral decision , ireland destabilized the rest of europe . but that turned out to be more complicated than originally thought and , in a matter of weeks , the government simply recapitalized america ’s banks . other bad decisions were not so easily reversed . hoping to prevent a bank run , the irish government offered a blanket guarantee on all banking deposits .
by contrast , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models that facilitate and even reward hate speech . on one hand , increased media literacy is needed on the part of consumers who need to be taught , from a young age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other side – and this is what netzdg efforts to ensure that social-media platforms are designed in ways that stimulate accountability . but this is no quick fix at all . hate speech and other forms of dangerous and illegal content must be attacked .
on the general question , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the idea of democracy itself , subject only to feasibility constraints . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy be able to make decisions directly , in a referendum , rather than through their elected representatives ? and , more explicit , should british legislators consider themselves bound by the outcome of the june 23 referendum ? in earlier times , the small city-states could be direct democracies ; but , in larger countries , when communication was slow , they were forced to elect representatives to decide the many questions that needed to be debated and voted upon . independently of what one thinks about britain leaving the eu , one can ask two other questions , one general and one specific to brexit .
what supporters of encryption recognize that “ if american companies maintain the ability to unlock their customers ’ data and devices on request , governments other than the united states will demand the same access , and will also be emboldened to demand the same capability from their home companies . ” the american government will not object , given its own policies . a large coalition of technology companies and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to us president barack obama arguing against backdoors . they regard a backdoor request in the same way that an automobile manufacturer would view a request for a defective engine . beyond “ undermining every american cyber security and national economic security , ” signers argued , “ introducing new vulnerability to weaken encrypted products in the us would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe .
kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , led by prime minister mahathir mohamad , suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal following the online circulation of sex videos involving a cabinet minister and another man . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice the imprisonment of people ’s justice leader anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those preceding it , risks obscuring more essential problems . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
macron also signaled his willingness to pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament election . at a time of much hand-wringing over the fall of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . in fact , macron took a leap into the unknown of the west ’s “ new politics , ” terrain no longer defined entirely by the competition between large center-right and center-left parties . as a democrat , he believes that europe ’s deepening must go hand in hand with the development of a truly european political space . but is politics really turning that page on the traditional center-left cleavage ?
london – most pundits agree that the least wrong way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is an ongoing combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer still , however , have recognized that the least bad military option , implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china take responsibility for its dangerous neighbor , is a chinese invasion , or regime change forced through china ’s ’s threat to launch one . that outcome , which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not as unlikely as most people seem to think . in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ” in fact , its very plausibility is one reason that it needs serious attention , including from chinese military planners .
spiekermann , a global authority on the trafficking of our online identities for targeted ads , political propaganda , public and private supervision , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum started discussing personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , ” she told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the idea that personal data might be the ‘ new oil ’ of the digital economy just as they seem to be politics . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon that harvests and exploit our data for whatever purpose one might think , ” ” ” ” spiekermann says . “’s data-management platforms , such as those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai , possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles about hundreds of millions of users . as a result , “ more than 1,000 companies are now engaged in a digital information value chain that harvests of any online activity and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users within roughly 36 seconds of their entry into the digital realm .
in india , for example , extreme poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers are faced with increased foreign competition . it gives poor access to a wider variety of commodities , while providing firms with more diverse selection of inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and reduce the price of agricultural products – outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . given constraints on cross-sectoral labor mobility , stemming from barriers to skills acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such changes occur . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustments in the short term .
kenyans need a similar means of reflection today . for kenya , a nation ’s very public decline has come at a high cost . but it has also demonstrated that press freedom means far more than letting journalists say what they want , when they want , and how they do so . it also means holding media owners accountable . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions could most benefit from such a mirror , those who have historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to put it down .
the us recession of 2001 combined an inventory downturn with an investment slump . the first is now over ; the second -- the result of overinvestment in high technology and telecoms , sectors that were so important in the late 90s -- may last considerably longer . there remains a considerable capacity to overhang -- such as the fiber optic lines that remain dark having yet to see any light pass through them . simply lowering interest rates did not , and will not , lead firms to invest more in these sectors . the good news -- and the bad ones -- is that the pace of technological change in such sectors is fast enough that much of it may become obsolete well before it is worn out or even used to allow new investment to start faster than it otherwise would .
two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rats in the sack , will have to emerge . once the bureaucracy and broad parameters for negotiations are established by early next year , may will formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . by that point , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . that , at the very least , is a formal plan .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 , was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . instead of chanting ho ’s name , young poles put flowers under the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forebears eve , written in the praise of freedom ’s struggle , had recently been declared subversive and anti-soviet , and its performance at a national theater in warsaw closed down . these are just a few of the difference between west and east european students in a that the springtime of the rebellion of the end of forty years ago . in warsaw , too , students protesting , but their cause was not the same as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to hijack “ ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with polish viet cong , but rather to defend their own country ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule .
preliminary conclusions that emerge from these studies will illuminate political debates – and probably annoy ideologues of both the right and the left . start with lustig argues in a recent paper with the absence of world income inequality . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality running from a value of zero for perfect equality to a 100-one for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . crucially , figures are comparable across a large set of middle – and low-income countries , and also with data available for advanced countries . the average gini score ( not weighted by population ) in countries for which data declined slightly in the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 .
likewise , while policies encouraging firms to boost wages will raise household income and domestic consumption , wage increases can erode export competitiveness and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment . the final piece of the puzzle for china is realism . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain a decent growth rate of around 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities may rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocations , and structural vulnerability .
it is worth remembering that to join the eu , hungary had to meet stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically eroded has introduced a paradox for the eu . and , by shutting down such a prominent us-supported institution , it can send a message that no one who has won . despots throughout history have used the same tactics . but orbán is doing just that in the eu in 2017 .
soros : i discussed this in 2000 , in my book the crisis of global capitalism . soros : the ecb is a well-functioning institution . so long as it behaves within its powers , germany is in no position to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something really significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . question : do you think that the current economic crisis is perhaps the final step in a general philosophical crisis of the west ?
in fact , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate on productivity growth has increased by four . moreover , it is not as though a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or increase poverty . social mobility in france has not experienced any significant change since 1991 . by moving away from a system of universal university eligibility to one that finds a more appropriate fit for all post-college students , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . macron ’s revolution is on the move .
but , while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being caught and punished , regardless of their social status . ongoing prosecutions have already altered the calculus for any economic agent who is thinking of violating the public ’s trust for private gain . in addition to individual firms , entire value chains that contribute heavily to a country ’s gdp have suffered a precipitous operational and financial freeze . reforming brazil ’s public and private relationship can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance .
even in the new member states , enthusiasm for the european family of democracies is cooling . many are turning their backs on the entire project . even in the new member states , enthusiasm for the european family of democracies is cooling . many are turning their backs on the entire project . they are not feeling part of the great whole ; they are not .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who has lied about his conversations with russia ’s ambassador during the transition ( probably about lifting sanctions under president barack obama has imposed on russian businesses ) . another prominent escapee from its special counsel was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have exploited its white house role , particularly in foreign policy ( in which he ’d have no experience ) , to attend to his family ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s need for funds to pay off vast real-estate debt . trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations initiated by or passed to federal and state prosecutors outside washington , dc . moreover , president-elect donald trump ’s son , jr. , along with other top campaign officials , met at trump tower with a russian intelligence agent with ties to the kremlin who promises “ dirt ” on clinton . it had been widely expected that trump ’s son would face indictment , as well as donald trump , jr. , had said so , but barr ’s announcement ruled out further prosecution .
the american people can not stop the spiral of violence in the middle east . in fact , the american and its allies simply do not like the results of arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalistic , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when the baltic states go in that direction , the us simply ignores the election results ( as it did in 2006 , for example , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . backroom dealings and violence continue to dominate the day . america , for its part , can not stop the spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after a wasted decade , the world is rousing itself against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world of ’s poorest countries , especially in africa and south-asia . in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of adults are afflicted . an estimated 19 million lives have been created by the pandemic , creating 13 million orphans , and the disease . 34 million more people live with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked by early death . while first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million people suffer from it in africa ; 6 million more in asia .
in most cases , the laws of skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . as a result , the sky is usually conceptualized . airliners and fighter aircraft operate in “ controlled ” air close to the ground , while nationality is supposed to matter less the higher you go . oceans belong to everyone except those near landmasses governed in a similar fashion with the land-locked borders . fragile treaties that cover this are enforced largely by the fact that few nations can afford to place assets that high .
in fact , few other trends pose a bigger threat to global stability . and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the beginning of the digital age and the end of the industrial age altogether . almost all societies have become heavily dependent on the internet , the world ’s most important piece of infrastructure – and also the infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough is the “ internet of things . ” the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cybercriminals , and other malign actors are already routinely exploiting .
china ’s pre-reform strategy rejected the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors such as natural resources , geography , and climate . in china , most soes survived because central planners emphasized economic autarky , regardless of cost . wto membership will also force the government to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against capital-intensive economic sectors , including agriculture . the same wto-induced secular adjustment underlies the decline of steel and textiles in advanced countries like the us . jamaica , say , is not producing frozen salmon or hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus fruit and tourism provides far more of the gains .
still , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year have failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth the country needs . as a result , italians have elected an unconventional coalition , whose program combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . while the league party promises to cut taxes , the populist five star movement ( m5s ) pursues a form of fundamental revenue . yet , before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit – unlike its underlying debt position – has often been rather restrained in comparison with the rest of europe , as well as the other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation and high debt .
learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing is a key challenge to economic development . stimulating foreign investment or liberalizing everything , and then waiting for things to improve , does not work . an effective strategy must accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional zones and weed out failing projects and investments . for that , governments must deploy both a carrot and a stick . a carrot is necessary because there is a great social value in the discovering , for example , that cut flowers or soccer balls or computer software can be produced at low cost , because this knowledge can orient investment by other entrepreneurs .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the effect of a cyclical rebound , an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real gdp would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , well above the 1.9 % rate in the decade ending in 2009 . the effect of the dollar ’s decline over the coming decade could be equally significant . but not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain . if the trade deficit is reduced to 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , implied by an increase in exports and a fall in imports , the output available for american consumption and investment will reduce america ’s real incomes by about 0.3 % a year . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of that dollar decline translates into import prices , the increased cost of imports would reduce america ’s real incomes by about 0.4 % per year .
an american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders in the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of its foreign-exchange bonds . it was this ruling that the us supreme court recently upheld . under the court order , argentina may not pay the holders of new bonds , unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as an intermediary with which to make payments for argentina . as a result , argentina must either pay the holdouts in full or default on the new bonds . holdouts have argued that if the new bonds have been serviced in full ( as they are ) , equal treatment demanded that holdouts receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) .
zhou bo , an honorary fellow with the pla academy of military science , admits that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally change the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ strong yet benevolent ” power . to be sure , india is suspicious of china ’s behavior . but china is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry . this matters , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to build a sprawling complex roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo – a “ port city ” that becomes a major stop on china ’s nautical “ road . ”
and it will strengthen the national anti-terrorist effort that modi previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . yet sharif has been an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . at the same time , the modi government has adopted the upa-proposed goods and services tax , which has stalled opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s gujarat ) . many modi media supporters have already begun to decry the series of policy abdications modi has pursued since his campaign . indian citizens , who thought they voted for change , are beginning to wonder if the bjp simply reprised upa government ’s policies .
with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” ” ” ” ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military matters , combined with the stability charter , has become urgent . a regional agenda must be created to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy that includes energy and water policies , arms control , and debt reduction . in all conflicts , human rights are among the first casualties ; in the middle east , where human dignity degradation has now undone international conventions agreed over several generations . europe ’s ’s contributions to the middle east have been great . we should look to the helsinki process to show us how to retrieve what has been lost .
for example , when the imf rightly suggested after argentina ’s crisis that there needed a better way to restructure debt ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , the u.s. vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed an agreement to restrict bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . they did what they could to ensure that no meaningful reforms occurred during the crisis , with the knowledge that after the crisis , the momentum toward reform would dissipate . who , after all , could foresee that bill clinton would be followed by a u.s. president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestations ? they were more right than they knew , and they were more aware of them .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom ’s return to china 20 years ago . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted on chinese soil . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s demonstration reflected growing frustration , not only with china ’s leaders , but also with their own .
to pick goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not only to solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices . what plays well with one group may not sit well with another . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be an effective diagnosis of the situation a group faces . leaders must get the question right before proposing answers . they must be able to assess reality accurately .
here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control the supplies of strategic commodities given the shortages they cause . sixth , sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments . but , by worsening the business and investment climate , economic sanctions take their toll primarily on the private sector . finally , sanctions are supposedly effective in containing nuclear proliferation .
no power anywhere , within or without the region , is willing and able to implement the barest vision of a new regional order – or even a vision for parts of it . central and eastern europe after 1989 , though a very interesting reference point for analysts of the arab revolutions , is not an adequate reference point , because the region ’s new domestic and foreign order resulted from changes in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union made sense . nothing of it applies to the middle east ’s crises .
after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , america ’s federal reserve has started the long march back to policy normalization . it has now taken the first step toward reversing its benchmark policy interest rate , the federal funds rate , to a level imparts neither with stimulus nor restraint to the american economy . a majority of financial-market participants applaud this strategy . in fact , it is a dangerous mistake ; it is a first step . a majority of financial-market participants applaud this strategy .
moreover , the build-up of risk in the financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard measuring and likely to materialize only after a few years ( for example , after a governor ’s term ends ) . de gregorio ’s views differ from those of many of his colleagues in other countries , because he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become larger and apply what he calls “ clever ” strategies that require a great deal of leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least for fiscal balances when implicit guarantees must be honored . by holding banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of gdp , vulnerability to shocks is declining . the danger for central banks stems from the implicit subsidies provided to major financial institutions , not measured in any budget .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny for what russian president vladimir putin is up to in syria , and why . much of the analysis , while narrowly focused on the short term , may be far too negative in assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences . what we do know is that putin chose to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russian bombs and missiles are now raining themselves on an array of armed groups fighting syrian government forces , which have given the regime the breathing space that russia intended to provide . as bad as the assad government is , and , like it must answer , this outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse .
using data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( a log in the vertical graph axis below ) tends to decline as the income level of an exporter ( shown by a log in the horizontal axis ) . the data pattern is fairly clear : as a country becomes richer , there are fewer anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it . this could be because richer countries observe rules better , attracting grievances as their labor costs rise , or some combination of the two . this may be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trade framework . each blue dot on his graph represents wto member economies , and a solid black line shows the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) .
john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ words ought to be somewhat wild , because they are the assault of thoughts on the unthinking , ” ” ” ” he wrote in 1933 . most bets are on britain formally leaving the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft ” exit , but they will probably be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . the referendum decision to leave the eu will be respected , but its harsh economic consequences will be deferred : a triumph of pragmatism over ideology . if the brexit trajectory turns out that way , it will be a good illustration of the dual nature and function of politics .
the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : former royal castle in the rolling hills of the taunus region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians have hosted the annual meeting with the middle east . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east ’s road map , has been at the center of attention . europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians , and turks , palestinians , and tunisians rubbed . on the opening night , a senior german government minister , himself deeply involved in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects displaying great sensibility of both israeli and palestinian concerns . the novelty this year was the presence of representatives from post-saddam iraqis , among them an official from a kurdish regional government , as well as a high ranking shi'a representative .
observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by the evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyam ( another late-night prayer ) , suhur ( another collective food ) , and then the morning prayers . the last ten days of ramadan are i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in the mosques and open areas . and ramadan – now underway , too – is mobilizing zation-friendly . after sunset , there is a common program ; there is a common one . cairo was paralyzed last friday , despite an almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets .
no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along all segments of its population and without giving a voice to all . with the emerging democratic dispensation , we have partners with whom we can engage on governance issues . as africa ’s preeminent development-finance institutions , the african development bank will support our north african members , enhancing our governance and institutions , strengthening social-welfare nets , and laying the basis for robust economic recovery . as we finance infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will strive to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas . we are broadening our consultations with governments and other actors , working more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and media , as well as with academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and sectoral associations .
the fate of the rest of the world depends on responses to the unfolding financial turmoil . the growing need for measures to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a winning formula ? ” even many of the poorest countries seemed to be joining at long last , posting strong growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and increasing fiscal revenues . while the numbers were never as rosy as the market enthusiasts seemed to think , they diverted attention from the shaky fundamentals of their newfound prosperity . property and stock-market contraction will undoubtedly dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . owing to its expanding middle class , the region will most likely account for half of the global increase in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three-quarters of the rise in fish consumption from now to 2030 . and by then , more than 60 % of the developing world ’s total global demand will come from south and east asia . manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many in asia . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , it could become a painful fact of life once again .
syria is a case in point . the situation there , predicted by every pundit , has metastasized , and is at risk of becoming a full-blown regional civil war . this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage with every problem . but , whether america is engaged or not , it needs policy . what the us needs is to explain better to its own people , why america should engage more deeply with the middle east in the midst of a mounting problem .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . with attackers becoming increasingly nimble and innovative , armed with an increasingly diversified array of weapons , cyber-attacks are occurring at a faster pace and with greater sophistication than ever before . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . everybody , from households to businesses to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most valuable commodity : the data .
viewed from the perspective of such truths provide , the european union ’s eastward enlargement , for example , is highly desirable not despite but because it may lead to migration from the new member states to the old . in this way , more portugals and irelands can be created as the wealth of already prosperous regions . this is not the only way forward , but it is not the only way forward . many of the consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least a more rational debate . integrating migrants makes much sense ; but they are desirable to help create sustainable conditions in the troubled countries with the help of a generation of emigrants who first transfer resources and then return themselves .
the costs are miniscule : reaching 80 % of the world ’s 140 million , or so undernourished children , would require a commitment of around $ 60 million annually , while the economic gains would ultimately clear $ 1 billion annually . providing iron and iodized salt is another top investment . we know that the deficiency of iron leads to cognitive and developmental challenges . fortifying the cost of products with an iron is little , on average , of $ 0.12 per person , a year . for the $ 286 million we could get iodized salt and enriched basic food items to 80 % of those in worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine-fold .
even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action from policymakers . standardization and liberalization in european telecoms have underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity over that period , compared to 6 % in the us . many projects , from airport to university campuses to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , which implies that weak demand in the short run will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . even if european countries were to close to 10 % of the variation in capital stock per worker at the subsector level , the impact could be more than € 360 billion of additional investment , offsetting the € 354 billion gap in private investment between 2007 and 2011 . the largest scale for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive industries , in which the government has a major presence as regulator .
first , they argue that much convergence has already occurred in manufacturing . as a result , the differential between growth in emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging group – has declined considerably . those who believe that it will typically rely on three arguments , all of which require some qualification . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low at it today . indeed , after averaging three percentage points over the last two decades and rise to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential has fallen to 2.5 last year , and is expected to reach just 1.5 this year .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards has introduced high levels of moral hazard and created perverse incentives for governments and market participants alike . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections across corporations and banks . italy ’s current situation should serve as a warning to all those advocating risk-sharing . under the latest eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risk should be liable for it has been replaced by a principle of joint liability , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale in the event of a crisis .
but 2004 was also a bitter setback for russian president vladimir putin , who tried to bring his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by backing massive vote manipulation . the creation of the new eurasia union was a key part of his platform . the hoped-for break with the past did not materialize , as political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failure brought yanukovych to power in a free and fair election , and in 2012 putin chose himself for a third presidential term in russia . the failure was a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 , persisting seven years of capital drought . the third cycle of inflows occurred in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , now is the time for a third “ sudden stop ” of capital flows to emerging markets . are a few data points and biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle hypothesis seriously ? perhaps if we have some sort of causal theory that could explain such periodicity to international capital flows .
they , in turn , would secure votes for the federal government to assume and repay the states ’ defaulted debts . a responsible fiscal state emerged from that grand compromise . hamilton ’s task was both easier and tougher than it is today . despite a tremendous cost – more than half of the fledgling us government ’s expenditures in early years went to debt service – the economy shook off the 1780 ’s depression , and entered a growth boom . jefferson and madison did not want a country ’s capital to be in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to support moving it to an area carved out of virginia or maryland .
digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , companies , and the government . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to lower fraud rates , cut customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and credit for under-banked customers . they can also spur development by enabling digital talent to be a matching and streamlined employee verification resulting from higher labor-market participation . digital ids could even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems . digital id could play a far more expansive role in how individuals and institutions interact .
the first of 1917 toppled czar nicholas ii and formed a tentative government headed by the socialist leader alexander kerensky and turned out to be a transitional blip . but the second revolution , which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power , produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of treachery . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” as the old order to continue to deceive workers and peasants . if the revolution continues apace , disentwined into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence . but if the revolution is aborted , its leaders will be undisguised as empty windbags .
in a perfect world , one would add to the state banking regulators , but i recognize that at this point i began to trample on the cherished features of america ’s constitution ! this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly about how to develop the financial system as a whole , without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in its care . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial independence from its monetary-policy role . the crisis has demonstrated that we need this plain talk . below it is an opportunity to create a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of a us currency board , the office of thrift supervision , and regional feds ’ regulatory functions .
in india , for example , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed when wal-mart enters the market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small merchants without stifling competition . the survival of artisanal vendors should not be used as an excuse to introduce or disregard business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent wealthy . the government can , say , impose zoning regulations , help small retailers find specialized niches in markets , or provide skills training to displaced workers . asian policymakers must remember how they successfully developed their manufacturing sector – through competition .
time and again , financial crises reflect the vulnerabilities of the regulatory systems founded on the lessons learned from prior crises . today ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will the next one . first , we thought that a key reason why banks fail is that depositors panic , not that the main reason depositors panic is that banks are at risk of failing . toulouse – when history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its punishing with a sadistic twist – also punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . the post-war system of financial regulation was established on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s .
in practical terms , a us-china bit would make it easier for chinese entities to invest and operate in the us , and to increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets . such a deal would be a near-term boon for xi , because it would represent the american vote of confidence in china ’s struggling economy . but the prospects for a bit are uncertain , at best . the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs compelling just as well . for china , the biggest prize is the bilateral investment treaty .
this is particularly interesting , given that it fundamentally rejects one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how a 20-foot sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario , also vividly depicted in the hollywood movie the day after tomorrow , is thought to be “ very unlikely . ” the report also revealed the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming may make the gulf stream shut down , turning europe into a new siberia . the ipcc ’s report makes it clear that the exaggerations of that magnitude have no basis in science , though clearly frightened people , and perhaps will win gore an academy award .
for starters , lowering tariffs on imports will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power and access to products that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will reap lower costs for foreign-made parts and equipment , which will boost their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers can end up boosting exports . it is important to note that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus against any particular partner , even as its overall surplus rises . finally , the international import expo will complement china ’s other liberalizing measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms . and , even if the import expo expands rather than reduce , a country ’s overall trade surplus may well have other benefits .
throughout the west , many people are questioning whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means of putting economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” using a “ energy weapon , ” however , is not a tactic only : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . against this background , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that the empire of the “ new russian dream ” should be built by purely economic means , excluding all forcible action against other nations . russia ’s policies toward post-soviet countries are rooted in the doctrine of the “ liberal empire , ” ” ” ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control of key economic entities across the territories of the former soviet republics by acquiring their assets . naturally , a key role in this model is given to the supply of energy to post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress is close to enacting a major tax reform . opponents of the legislation point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , which adds $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . i dislike budget deficits , and i have a long warning of their dangerous effects . nonetheless , i believe that the economic benefits implied by corporate tax changes will outweigh the adverse effects of increased debt . the plan ’s most important provision reduces the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % , from the highest among all oecd countries to one of the lowest – and allows us companies to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries without paying additional american tax .
to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to promote some inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the last six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would respond soon by injecting liquidity , prompting the bank of japan to take action again . such actions are usually justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , low-grade currency warfare . we need a group of major economies – call it the “ g major ” – that announces monetary policies in a coordinated fashion .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is the observation that in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth has averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to 2.5 % under republicans . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the mismatch is even larger . the results are similar , even if one assigns responsibility in the first three months – or the first few quarters – of the president ’s term for his predecessor . the gap in economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with disparities clearly above the threshold for statistical significance .
indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , has been arrested on ludicrous charges of “ inciting a crime . ” venezuelans would like nothing better than to be the ones deciding their own destiny , but democratic means that this is being denied to them . it would have been preposterous to tell ukrainian demonstrators facing a government storm troopers to nokia , and bear it without external solidarity or support . it is only as preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same thing . terms in office have passed for prosecutor-general , members of the national election commission , and the supreme court justices , but no successors , because maduro is unwilling to negotiate with the opposition , and he lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials of his choosing .
classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism , to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . true , far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump . yet , in the face of large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point at hand . but history suggests that nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . it is easy to see why , then , we know why .
jack nicholson asks , as he walks through his psychiatrist ’s waiting room in putin ’s eponymous film . many are now wondering whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it gets for a long time to come . at the recent g-20 finance ministers ' recent meeting in shanghai , participants asked much the same question – and not just with respect to the medium-term expectations of weak global growth . determining the validity of such fears requires understanding what drives china ’s economic slowdown . london – “ what if this is ‘ as good as it is ? ’
it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupying moscow – gain further cohesion . the internet is also disseminating the templates of what a true democracy looks like – instantly and worldwide . not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that indicate that they have little interest in being cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalisms , or religious identities . this agenda is at stake in direct conflict with the interests of global capital and governments that have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . overwhelmingly , they want simple democracy and economic self-determination .
but three of the european union ’s four largest economies , france , italy , and the united kingdom , all run large debts and annual deficits that point to even higher debt ratios in the future . that is a worrying prospect for everyone . when interest rates rise , as surely as they must , the cost of servicing the debt will require higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . firms now worry that increasing deficits will drive higher taxes , further discouraging investment .
they pioneered new retail institutions , from the department stores to the box stores . they also tended to do disproportionately well in learned professions – such as medicine , law , and accounting – that are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fact that jews have long been a minority subject to discrimination is sometimes given as a cause for their tendency to devote to commerce , finance , and professions . yet not all minorities long subject to discrimination necessarily succeed under conditions of market competition . the economy ’s fastest growing sectors since the end of the nineteenth century have been those loosely classified as “ service industries , ” ” ” often involving diffusion of disinformation and entertainment , activities in which jews have been especially prominent , from publishing to vaudeville , and from movies to business sports .
to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we propose a new , holistic framework , developed by the one planet lab working group on financing the sustainable infrastructure sector , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . vert-infra initially covers four sub-sectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transport , and buildings , with a special emphasis on projects in urban areas . crowding in private capital will thus be key to closing the investment gap . crowding in private capital will thus be key to closing the investment gap . to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we propose a new , holistic framework , developed by the one planet laboratory working group on financing the sustainable infrastructure of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member .
moreover , the new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have come onto the international scene . today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and , in contrast to 2001 ) , america appears crucially weakened . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb , and ample new dynamite is spilling over across the region . a success for american policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able to contribute substantial support . without us support from china and india , american ’s middle east policy can no longer succeed , but this support is given only half-heartedly – if at all .
the creative destruction ( bolstered by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . true , the new economy is tough for those sitting on its backsides to live at the expense of stockholders or their taxpayers . but this is no longer the american story , and it is still the right moment . skeptics keep arguing that the competition and technology wreak havoc on corporate harmony ; that they generate inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , it gives a chance to energetic people formerly on the sidelines .
indeed , even mammogram ( almost $ 40 million is annually in the us ) that cancer detects does not necessarily save lives . dartmouth researchers have found that , of an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us , the test did not help the 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer have received a similar , albeit less definitive , critique . cancers have either been growing so slowly that they do not pose a problem , or would have been treated successfully if discovered clinically later ( or were so aggressive that little can be done ) . the next step in reevaluation of cancer screening last year was made when researchers at the dartmouth medical policy institute announced that the costs of breast-cancer screening are often minimized , and that the benefits are much overblown .
a new study argues that there is now a 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , and an 80 % chance that it will reach 9.6-12.3 billion by 2100 . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this engine : improve women ’s access to modern contraception . this is important , because a rising population may be an even bigger problem than was previously thought . sub-saharan africa – persistently the poorest region – will be the primary engine of demographic growth . providing contraception for the 215 million women worldwide – a large share in africa , eager to avoid pregnancy , would cost about $ 3.6 trillion annually .
in contrast to the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . state-owned enterprises , too , should be free to offer , but they should receive no favors . this is a struggle for power , not for economic justice or a better life . the fundamental problem in iraq is not jobs ; it is not . the uprooting causes are political , sectarian , and personal .
on russia since its invasion of georgia , obama , and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of congress to visit georgia after the invasion ) , emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia by such actions as expelling it from the g-8 . this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , yet mccain seems unable to recognize it . moreover , even after outrage in georgia is fueling issues of joint interest – such as energy , climate change , and iran – on which both the west and the kremlin must cooperate . such arrangements may ultimately be necessary , but they will not help georgia survive as an independent democracy .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the south remains lawless , while the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to the ill-consolidated government in tripoli . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into chaos and the decimated central-government authority . the south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward another secession struggle of the country almost 25 years after fragile reunification . the south remains lawless , while the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to the ill-consolidated government in tripoli . in yemen , meanwhile , opportunities for adequate central authority are slipping away as the country confronts a few seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a failing economy .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a broad consensus emerged that the public sector had the responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and stimulate economic growth . but that consensus proved short-lived , and soon public-sector economic interventions came to be viewed as the root causes of the crisis , and thus needed to be reversed . this turned out to be a grave mistake , and it was a grave mistake . in europe , in particular , governments lambasted for their high debts , even as private debt , not public borrowing , caused the collapse . many were instructed to introduce austerity rather than spur growth with counter-cyclical policies .
in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead , we are undertaking far-reaching reforms in this direction . likewise , the goal of a socialist international is a world governed not by free markets , but by free people . this means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and people with disabilities , and empowering citizens through education and participation . we must fight exclusion from our political parties , just as we are fighting exclusion in our societies . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide and the knowledge to decide well .
in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . indeed , the euro could destroy the eu altogether . in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . the us banking and household sectors have made some progress in deleveraging . shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage in manufacturing in general , and in petrochemicals , especially .
even as the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many also came to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to assist . nothing was more repugnant to china ’s new nationalists than to the idea of a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . this divided attitude meant that china tended to react in ways as contradictory as impassioned and unforeseeable , especially when its pride is piqued . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the humiliating prospect of feeling unable to resist foreign predation . yet , by the section o’70s , when i went to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ”
third , we face steeply rising fossil-fuel prices , as developing countries ’ growth drives up demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas are being depleted . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is many hype – similar to past gold rushes and stock bubbles . shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional fields do . and they are environmentally dirty to boot , too . sure , we can find more fossil fuels , but at much higher cost and at far greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damages .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is a bit more than a month away , but already the campaign seems to have come with us permanently , rolling implacably ahead , but with little evidence of any genuine agitation – or even substantial – movement on the polls . support for the two main contenders – the labour party and the ruling conservative party ( spd ) – seems stuck in the low to-mid 30s . conservatives hope that the governing record on the economy will convince undecided voters to break in their favor late in the campaign . perhaps they are right now ; they deserve to be . meanwhile , labour seems to be hoping for who-knows-what to turn the tide , while keeping their collective fingers crossed that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatening to sweep the board .
the second insight from psychological research , summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , concerns the role of cognition in decision-making . recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for the many decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously . for example , former us president george w. bush may have decided to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for a variety of reasons : strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even competition with his father . the majority did not involve weapons of mass destruction , and the two of them did not . is it really an american tradition not to care about what happens to others ?
but this makes implementing open trade policies all the more crucial , because they are the best tools available to compensate for bad cards that nature sometimes deals . other factors besides trade policy also matter . protection of property rights , civil and political liberties , protection from random violence are among other important factors in promoting economic growth . fiscal restraint as reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth is also important . geographic location is also important , because things like distance from markets , bad climates , and poor soil impede economic growth in developing countries .
but the biodiversity on which all of us depend is under threat , as human activity devastates forests and other plant-rich habitats . durham , north carolina – my day begins the world cup of coffee and ends with hot chocolate . a brightly color orchid enlivens my study and , through a window , catch a glimpse of my green garden . in between , i consume a wide variety of food and pharmaceuticals , including my daily 81 mg dose of aspirin . in short , my life – like everyone ’s – is enabled , enriched , and extended by a wide variety of plants and their derivatives – is extended .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has been repeated so many times over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane if it were not as dangerous . the cycle goes something similar : american or international pressure mounts on israel to halt settlement activity in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble even more energy to expand onto more palestinian land , to build more exclusively jewish settlements , and to destroy more arab homes before the so-called “ freeze ” comes into effect . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke while this may . in the end , world pressure subsides and the freeze fails to materialize .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to maintain a “ stable prices ” – as it enamored under the us federal reserve act , and the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , those items that $ 100 could buy today cost $ 122 by the end of the decade . so how is it that us policymakers managed to substitute the latter ? the concept of stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 50 , or even hundreds of billions of dollars from now . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 .
as a liberal myself , i share these values , but recognize that insisting on them as a policy matter ultimately undermines the interests of migrants . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest groups of immigrants ; it also leads a brain drain from countries in need of highly skilled workers . but , once again , one must scrutinize the trade-off . skills-biased immigration gives rise to a similar dilemma . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether the desperate newcomers for a job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , a limited period ) or not being admitted at all .
the wellspring of authoritarianism is such a direct method . we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when a apathetic or frightened public is in place , but also in the absence of an apparent stable advanced guard , such as powerful political parties that choose and control leaders . eu reforms were decreed from above , without having any grassroots support and , therefore , with no lasting durability in sight . all we have received direct appeals to the street and the masses , rather than encouragement of genuine social consensus . as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which the presidential election is the only political issue .
likewise , greece ’s gdp is 49.3 % , but its ratio is just 13 % . to be sure , a youth-unemployment ratio of 13 % , or 19 % , is not the grounds for complacency . but , while the eurozone ’s youth unemployment rate has risen since 2009 , its gdp has remained the same ( though both have been well above the pre-2008 level ) . during the french student protests in 2006 , france experienced 22 % youth unemployment unfavorably , on average , by 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , the us , and germany . and a eurozone-wide rate of 20.8 % far exceeds the ratio of 8.7 % .
alternatively , china might eventually become a new supplier of us reserve assets . but there is a third possibility : global demand for american reserve assets may subside . in this scenario , a reserve asset supply would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions . reserve status for the sdr is a long-held imf ambition , even though the idea has never gained much traction . this link could be direct if the renminbi acquires a reserve-currency state ; or indirect , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , becomes the favored reserve asset , as the renminbi is now in the opec currency basket .
with the american economy already operating at close to full capacity ( with unemployment below 5 % ) , higher imports and a stronger america ’s dollar will be needed to meet that demand . trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including a cut in the us corporate tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and boost military spending , and america seems likely to face very rapidly rising fiscal deficits and an enormous short-term drag on demand . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which america remains a leading export market . but it is the peripheral countries that are most likely to benefit .
princeton – for the last century , economic-policy debate has been locked in orbit around respective roles and virtues of state and market . this old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . the same question is dividing american politics at the center of november ’s presidential and congressional elections . does the market control of the state , in the sense that it sets limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially necessary functions , such as fighting wars or maintaining full employment ?
the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit will hurt europeans far more than it hurts britons . british negotiators will then respond to eu negotiators with a ’ domino-theory logic by trying to make the process as painful as the rest of the eu can . this means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own prophecy . britain can not simply start beating the europeans into its own game by reviving its auto industry , or by making its own wine to rival french and italian manufacturers .
alternatively , the domestic demand shortfall would reassert itself once the stimulus stopped . when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic spending may rebound , but the saving rate will not and should not go back to zero . fiscal stimulus , in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts , might help tide the economy over while the structural adjustment and the widening competitiveness of the tradable sector is advancing . but , by itself , stimulus is not the answer . the excessive domestic demand that underpin this evolution is now gone , permanently .
the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran underlines not only putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policy . this contrast also reflects a fundamental difference between iran , the historical nation state , and the artificial creation that is iraq . if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from the narrow view of russian interests , while the resulting mess will be a problem for america and its traditional allies rather than russia . so the american goal of regime change in baghdad does not look too bad , even if it can not be publicly supported . for president putin , this makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later for his helpful silence on the form of american influence in the successor iraqi regime concerning the repayment of the country ’s russian debts .
indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia 's wars , serbia 's attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . so far , president kostunica 's refusal even to discuss putting an internationally indicted war criminals on the trial is not a hopeful wife here . no matter how much milosevic has exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo 's ethnic albanians have been genuinely popular among serbs . most kosovars find talking to serbia about improved relations difficult when serbia does not undergo some sort of “ de-nazification " process . indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia 's wars , serbia 's attitude toward its minorities reflects a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated .
yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace from western leaders ( and a flood of investment ) , the relationship remained mired in mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding . in fact , most experts still believe that he was convicted by fraudulent evidence , and that the cia bribed witnesses . in the end , the economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – like another suspect , lamin fatigupta , who was later acquitted , to face a scottish tribunal at camp zakst in holland . furthermore , libya has formally accepted responsibility for the bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims of ’ families and to abandon his weapons of mass destruction program . but there has never been conclusive proof that megrahi was involved in lockerbie bombing .
without them , the continent is more likely to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and , ultimately , conflict and chaos . with the right education , skills , and job opportunities , this immense workforce could deliver rapid and sustainable economic growth across the region . this experience has motivated it to establish its dangote academy , a center for talent development that aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and fostering greater prosperity . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens , more than either india or china combined .
first , the country has inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes women ’s inferiority . another young woman ’s husband , aisha , cut off her nose and ears when she fled . as a result , women are deprived of their basic rights and liberties . violence against women in afghanistan persists for a variety of reasons . second , there is a strong political incentive to deprive women of their rights .
during greece ’s accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . both inflation and the fiscal deficit fell rapidly ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government placed an ambitious package of liberalizing reforms . but entering a european economic and monetary union was intended to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as productivity growth and strengthened competitiveness . at first , events played out according to the plan . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 , and remains around that level until 2007 .
in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean arctic alliance to launch an arctic commitment . other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulation to maintain a level playing field . momentum toward an hfo phase-out in the arctic is being built . the danish shipowners ’ association , and arctic expeditions hurtigruten , are just two of the players calling for tighter regulation or outright ban . the european parliament has already broadly supported such a move .
john f. kennedy was a bit of both , and he was written off by the us . he did one great thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis . in fact , he is between the most charismatic and charming leaders that i met ; the other two – former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – are also african or african-american as well . in africa , there has been no big figure since the death of south african president nelson mandela , combining courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . and his gift to motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy .
some steps , including the removal of the american trade embargo , are prohibited by the helms-burton act , adopted by the american people ’s congress in 1996 . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 original members , and it was a member of the united states . sanibel of the restoration of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states unlocks new prospects for the island ’s economy . much was involved in the 1944 bretton woods conference , and had an active delegation there . but restoring cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund provides a real possibility .
it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure government officials ’ success . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make appalling policymakers , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or other interpersonal skills . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians became discredited or parties deadlocked . moreover , they have the credibility that comes with a lack of desire to be reelected , either because their term in office has been limited in advance , or because they are known to prefer a quiet academic life . and many excellent political leaders , for example , george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents , have not been intellectuals .
today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vital to accommodate an expanding global population set to reach nine billion by 2050 – are being made without adequate regard for disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that there is no such thing as a natural disaster ; there is only the disastrous impact of nature-based hazards , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . in this sense , climate-change projections should challenge politicians and business leaders to calibrate their perceptions of exposure and disaster risk again . in the absence of a comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which devastated the coastlines of 11 countries resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injured , and well over $ 10 billion in damages , 168 governments agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year plan to reduce disaster risk .
though that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ unequivocal steps to enhance nationally determined contributions ” by 2020 , ” it offered a platform for a new generation of climate and nature advocates . fortunately , this may be starting to change . two years ago , nature-based scientists and its partners published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . yet natural climate solutions have continued to attract relatively little attention – and even less funding .
moreover , it will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not spearheading a shia liberation movement . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . to ensure that iran continues to progress toward international engagement – thereby protecting the nuclear deal that trump is not eager to defend – rouhani ’s administration will have to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . but trump wo n’t make that easy for rouhani . just a few weeks ago , the us administration was forced to admit that rouhani is fulfilling its part of the nuclear deal .
but the damage done will extend far beyond the suffering of hundreds of innocent individuals locked under false pretenses . the hope that turkey is finally shedding its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy will lie in tatters . ludicrous cases are going ahead , and more people are being drawn into them . these cases will ultimately collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity . neither the mainstream independent media reports the inconsistencies of fear of provoking either the government or the gülen network .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . but russia is unlikely to draw on this emergency credit line in the current crisis . likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that it would argue , “ forestall short-term balance of payments pressures , provide mutual support , and further strengthen financial stability . ” in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions have turned against russia . but russia is unlikely to draw on this emergency credit line in the current crisis .
they will also try to lower japan ’s dependence on its exports , and to rethink the process of sending its production facilities to lower-wage countries . the economic impact of policy in the us , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses , rather than fueling greater activism . continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainty , confound debt , and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . from being stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed labor-market overhauls , congressional dysfunction would keep america ’s economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would also eat away at potential output . in other countries , the causal direction runs primarily from economics to politics .
paris – the riots that have rampaged across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing socialist parties across europe . that the traditional left is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis is more than odd . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , are in disarray – as is germany ’s social democrats , despite their being part of the ruling grand coalition . in countries holding power , such as spain , are now deeply unpopular .
whatever has happened between the international monetary fund ’s former managing director and his accusers , the fact that he has been arrested and pardoned outside the press as a criminal suspects has had a great criticism in france . one allegation , made recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrests were characteristic of american puritanism . the response to 9/11 and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with an african chambermaid in a new york hotel had very little in common other than one thing : once again , cultural conflict has been invoked in a misleading way . the french , he alleged , are from a latin culture , with a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties and have more refined appreciation of the art of seduction .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the success of their defiance shows the power of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy implies taking responsibility for one ’s fate into one ’s own hands . nobody ever doubted that ukraine has changed vastly in its twelve years of independence . self-confidence among governed and prudence among rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and the true freedom , and they can never be diverted again in the us homeland . yet , caught in a gun barrel sights , nobody – not even the brave men and women who camped out in their hundreds of thousands in the snow before ukraine ’s parliament – knew with certainty whether those changes had wrenched ukrainians from the grip of fear and apathy . they have reason to be proud , if not entirely so .
netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confuses , and often enrages americans . his relentless disquisitions on israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic environment , security requirements , red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talk of reopening negotiations , which are immediately rejected by palestinians , who , like him , fear showing weakness . israeli prime ministers are supposed to come in two varieties : heavily accented east european men and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing to the latest american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid . furthermore , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east does not coincide with that of the obama administration – in thrall to its collapsing romance with moderate islamists and its dedicated supporters among jewish americans . while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir were not averse to lecturing , they lacked strategic cunning .
in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” for example , the british public did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but , a year later , his vision , confidence , and communications skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxieties after france ’s fall and a dunkirk evacuation . and then , in 1945 , after the public ’s focus from winning the war to constructing a welfare state , churchill voted from office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; changing followers ’ needs did . followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a powerful need for change , often in the context of personal , organizational , or social crisis .
the government has also secured an eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , will allow ireland to retain a permanent seat on the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority of 62 % to 23 % , with 15 % of voters undecided . but the picture is far from clear-cut .
to that end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we suggest that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security is given the right to object to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . a decision to reject a merger or authorize investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in us foreign-policy circles . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . finally , the eu must do more to advance its financial toolkit and promote international use of the euro . the solution is not to meddle in the rules of competition , but to give those in charge to security , some say , in the decision-making process .
ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . a newly passed bill – clearly targeted by israeli arabs in the knesset ( parliament ) – would allow mks to be dismissed for disloyalty to the state . whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it did not punish israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . for israel , democracy has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel was a natural fit of western alliances . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however , the weaker becomes its connection to its strategic rearguard in the west .
to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their citizens ’ interests , and to what extent should they be concerned about the welfare of people everywhere ? in kosovo restricting intervention to aerial bombardment has made this strategy a total success : nato forces suffered not a single casualty in the combat , but about 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians . mr. romano prodi , eu president and former prime minister of italy , responded to president bush ’s most recent statement by saying that if one wants to be a global leader , one must know how to look after the entire earth , and not only american industry . this approach to the responsibilities of a national leader , stated bluntly and fair , forces us to consider a fundamental ethical question . but the question is not just one for those aspiring to be world leaders .
in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring ceasefire – and accompanying legislation that grants nazitsk and luhansk considerable political autonomy – enabling russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . moreover , the delayed implementation of key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine is clear evidence that russia currently dictates the terms of eu-ukrainian engagement . it increasingly appears that ukraine is becoming locked into a “ frozen conflict ” – russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe is repeatedly outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin .
when was the last time that happened ? with the dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everybody laments america ’s spendthrift habits . but has this ever come to anybody how hard americans must work to make everyone else look good ? owing to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the greatest headache of every developing country ’s finance minister nowadays struggle to keep his or her country ’s currency from going too fast against the dollar . chronic debt-crisis countries , from mexico to russia to south korea , are all fighting off capital inflows from investors seeking an exit as the dollar collapses .
new york – hurricane harvey has left in his wake upended lives and enormous property damage , estimated by some at $ 150-180 billion . of course , no particular climate event can address directly the increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but researchers have long predicted that such increases would boost not only average temperature , but also weather variability – and especially the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey . to be sure , it is ironic that an event so associated with climate change would occur in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers , and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel industry that is driving global warming . but the rains that inundated the texas coast for the better part of a week , and the hurricane that hits south florida , also raise deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics .
the eu was founded on the mechanical idea that interdependence would reduce conflict . rather than banding together , each new challenge has split the eu into ever-smaller groups . pro-europeans need to engage in the sources of discontent and rethink the forms used to express the european ideal . by linking europe together , first through the european coal and steel community , and later through the common market and europe , the eu hoped to bind european states together so closely that war between them would no longer be an option . europe has divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided east and west .
in nigeria today , a key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to enable obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms met a solid wall of opposition . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to enable obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms met a solid wall of opposition . given nigeria ’s ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is real progress . unfortunately , it is not necessarily the president ’s job .
he views three leading theories about what we ought to do – one deriving from kant , one from the socio-tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls , and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism – and argues that kantian and socio-contract theories must be revised in order to be defensible . then he argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism , a theory in the same broad family as utilitarianism . parfit argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism , a theory in the same broad family as utilitarianism . parfit ’s response to this line of argument leads him to make a claim that is perhaps even bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . if parfit is right , there is a far less disagreement between apparently conflicting moral theory than we all thought .
but that does not mean that a corporation is the right entity to engage in altruism , even though its various stakeholders obviously can spend any portion of the income they earn from corporation and other sources in altruistic ways . instead of csr , we should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding out from a spilled coffee , both a subject of lawsuits in recent years . with the rise of the business corporation , large family firms in the us have generally disappeared . one may also argue for csr becomes a way of “ passing buck ” – evading personal responsibility to do good .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be viewed as the most significant visit to the region by the united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . what clinton did , and said during her asian tour , will mark either the end of the era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the beginning of a distinct new phase in that epoch . the revival of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power at the cold war ’s height and prepared the way for china to open up its economy – a decision that , more than any other country defined today , is ’s world . kissinger ’s mission triggered a diplomacy . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america is reluctant to accept china ’s push for regional hegemony .
chinese demand is growing not only , but , as incomes rise , its composition is shifting to more sophisticated goods and services . thus , china ’s role is shifting : once the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western products . rising chinese incomes also imply structural change for china , as its continued growth presupposes a shift to higher-value activities . technology and knowledge will still be important , but china must begin generating new technologies , in addition to absorbing western tools and skills . this represents a major opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for appropriate parts of evolving supply chains .
historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains . but , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental changes , because it typically wound up paying extra . for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex , the symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism – are impeding europe ’s normalization , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms . but his recent actions seem to be reproducing them .
dublin – europe ’s needs and europeans are at odds . at a time when strong , coordinated action is needed to stave off financial meltdown in the european union , the popular support that drove european integration over the last six decades is waning . this failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement to individual countries , which forces politicians to pretend that they can address economic issues with domestic policies on their own . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected for independent economic policies to work . after nearly 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity was so important , indulging nationalist sentiment without regard for its potential consequences .
for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of the argument . a full assessment of the war in iraq and its effects on the middle east will last a decade or more . the skeptics have a point , but they go too far . in the last six months , national elections have been underway in lebanon and local elections in saudi arabia . clearly , the january 2005 elections produced a positive step for the region .
it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies an unshakable destiny . freedom changes the frame and substance of choice , as well as individual and collective responsibility . as thomas mann once wrote : “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return to europe ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought the lesson that moving from a closed society to an open one is both possible and extremely difficult .
cambridge – major tax reform is very high on the agenda for the united states in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for this for years , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal incomes are taxed . now , with the republican majority in both the senate and the republican president in the white house , those plans can provide the basis for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is especially significant . i believe that it will have a highly favorable impact on business investment , raising productivity and overall economic growth .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never really criticized repression there , nor the berlin wall . this alliance between the two parties led to severe distortions of fundamental western values . palme 's main speech stressed " détente , " trust , " and " friendship , " but never " freedom " . instead , palme praised east german leader erich honecker , underscoring shared goals and a reciprocal struggle for peace and development . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of opposition leaders in germany , did not see the cold war as primarily a conflict between freedom and tyranny .
vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted their freedom , too . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of the 1945 consensus . for a short while , many prominent people – albert einstein , for one – believed that only a global government would be able to ensure global peace . these aspirations were often voiced in the united nations , founded in 1945 . a different kind of revolution occurred in the european former colonies in asia , where native peoples had little appetite for rule once more by western powers that had been so ignominiously defeated by japan .
guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and allowing banks to take on even more leveraging , was no surprise that the administration veered from one policy to another , with absolute conviction , up to minutes before it was abandoned for another . moreover , what little action has been taken has been toward shoring up the financial system . but the financial crisis is just one of several crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem has been made worse by the sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population . even if confidence really was all that mattered , the economy would have sunk . those who would have spent no money , and those with money , are not spending .
in the midst of a foreign-capital bonanza , the stagnant level of private investment in tradable goods provides a particularly potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have only themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed in to this wild ride . the deeper problem lies with the global economy ’s over-financialization that has occurred since the 1990s . the policy dilemmas that have resulted in rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room for managing the real economy , will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . officials face a simple choice : maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows , or be ready to invest a large share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves .
foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear security framework when they gather at the international conference on nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event , which is open to all countries . at the top of the agenda should be ratification of the improvements to a crucial nuclear security facility , second to the physical protection of nuclear materials . even relatively small amounts of material like cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – could cause severe harm if combined with conventional explosives in a so-called dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . a proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect the nuclear material when it is used or stored , and not just when it is carried out internationally , as is now .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to watch both countries play the semi-final in the cricket world cup . the match was played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , the prime minister , and the chief of staff of the army , it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , a process , rather than a protocol , will determine how bilateral relations move forward . on the political side , however , both countries were not evenly aligned .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses should be safeguarded through the same mechanisms that the united nations food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao ’s seed accord , a nation can register plants , share its seeds , and derive its profits from the resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which sometimes allow transnational corporations and wealthy governments to obtain outrageous profits from indigenous agriculture . it is dangerous folly , however , to extend this policy to the viruses . if the concept of “ viral sovereignty ” had been applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these allow scientists to test drugs and vaccines against all the different strains of the virus that cause aids .
since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis the developing world . in the last decade , italy ’s share of global exports has fallen from 3.9 % to 2.9 % . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . the new government ’s new challenge will be to implement reforms that allow italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect . this requires increased investment in innovation and human capital .
informed citizens reasonably fear that wall street wonk in question may be in thrall to a particular ideology or methodology ; that the advice may be politically motivated ; or that consultants may tailor their counsel to their own career concerns ( how to get that plum job on wall street after leaving government , for example ) . but technical ability is not the only or even the main issue in the first place . there is a misconception at work . conflicting motivations are probably a more important reason why citizens increasingly mistrust experts . policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice .
as a result , the price of inaction is considerable . while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics increases , and may even bring forth right-wing populists whom a democratic germany has so far been spared . whichever party combination emerges at the very top -- and helmut kohl 's coalition must still be regarded as the narrow favorite -- it enjoys a meager majority , depending on any major initiative on the unlikely support of its political opponents . thus , germany seems destined to become stuck in the doldrums .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with nearly 40 % of all international commerce and europe ’s growing importance – crises notwithstanding – as a reserve currency means that the eu , just like the us , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . the difference is that america acts decisively . europe , of course , occupies the moral high ground that america has mostly vacillated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . european leadership on climate change and development aid could , if well handled , form the foundation of a new moral authority . but there is little sign of governments embracing this opportunity .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is en route to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . as l.p. hartley wrote in the go-it-alone : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently there . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in many member states , the ecj ’s rulings generated a backlash , particularly on the left , with business unions and court social movements targeting the alleged zeal in siding with business over labour interests . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty referendum . in september 2008 , for example , former president roman herzog published the polemic right “ stopped the ecj ! ” he accused the luxembourg judges of grabbing ever-greater competences to member states , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate a few controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where there has been considerable disquiet about “ judicial activism ” for some time , and what some see as an irreversible trend toward the ecj and other eu institutions .
here , several proposals have already been put forward , including universal basic income , currently piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions , such as ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and various types of portable social security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example . at the same time , countries must facilitate workers ’ ability to change jobs through reforms to their labor markets and social-safety nets . this means shifting the focus from backward-looking labor-market policies that strive to protect workers in existing jobs , future-oriented measures , such as innovative insurance mechanisms , and active labor-market policies . moreover , social contracts based on formal long-term labor-market employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health-care care having made more portable and tailored to evolving labor-market arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economy .
as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , the us does not kill them faster than it is being created . in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks , there was a good deal of sympathy and understanding around the world for america ’s military response against the taliban . the us , too , is failing in the application of soft power . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon are behind our adversaries in the use of communication – either to recruit or to train them . ” how the us uses military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio .
air , soil , and water pollution have been on the rise , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . our study concludes that india can have faster economic and industrial growth , higher energy rates , and a more cleaner environment . sometimes , these technologies pay for itself , and will be adopted . but this is not what has happened so far . the key to a clean future is clean technologies , whose costs have been falling steadily , and will continue to do so .
as a result , students in places where schools have not yet been built or too few qualified teachers can still get an education . the private sector is also bringing innovation to the classroom . for example , some providers are developing pedagoturing models in which students can watch teacher-created online online videos so that precious teacher-student face time can focus on interacting rather than lecturing . similarly , skilled teachers can now deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at once , even if they are hundreds of miles away . as a result , students in places where schools are not yet built , or too few qualified teachers , can still get an education .
the chinese government has invested heavily in recent years in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national champions , ” ” ” mainly to ensure that china ’s profits from the power of markets , while leadership controls as much of the spoils as possible . in order to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of foreign competitors . in no mood to play the scapegoat , china ’s leaders use surging national pride to bolster their position and strengthening their hand in bargaining . when the us congress takes up the debate over climate change , for example , and some us legislators are calling for a cap-and-trade system , others will seek to know why america should accept binding emissions-reduction commitments while the chinese refuse . the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of tires and steel pipes , but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation can stem from persistent supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more now . so , while central banks are reluctant to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , because they have already done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation may stay low for longer . this central bank patience risks de-anchoring inflationary expectations at the same time . otherwise , they would have to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , an approach with which most central banks ( excluding the bank of japan ) are uncomfortable . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carry risks of undesirable asset-price inflation , excess credit growth , and asset bubbles .
in order to reach agreement on similar scale and influence , world leaders – particularly america and china – would need to come under similarly heavy pressure . one such catalyst could be a financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose just as well . one such catalyst could be a financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose as well .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the delaying tactics of france and the french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . for , although a french majority today may be keen to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that they will be reelected in 2012 . not so much is sarkozy ’s performance as president that most frenchmen reject ; it is his essence . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by fears about the future , the french need a reassuring father or mother figure , not jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise the ethics and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen is entitled to equal treatment under the rule of law . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he dishonor first and then defeat .
as it stands , such countries receive just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee required annually to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during the first few years of displacement . in 2016 , the developed countries should agree to accept a combined total of approaching one million refugees , either through resettlement or through the issuance of humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada alone indicating that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , it is clear that this goal is achievable . at the same time , the international community must support the inclusion of refugees in major host countries , like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . millions end in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years on average stuck in limbo , uncertain as they might return home .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually receding . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet , in both countries , some social inequalities have been on the decline in recent decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( especially among the bottom castes ) are now politically assertive .
but unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern countries , and output continues to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . the main reason for this lag is not simply low demand or large debts . there is a vast gap between unit labor costs – real wages adjusted for productivity – in germany and the heavily indebted southern countries . when the crisis hit , production costs in greece were about 30 % higher than in germany , so greece exported very little , and imported very much . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany .
russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crisis , actually amounts to a peace offensive that is offensive to peace . putin ’s gambit is akin to the 1945 yalta conference , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a division of europe that enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century . most notably , despite the russian army massed against the us , the us is embarking on an election campaign . next month , ukraine ’s citizens will freely elect a new president – the best rebuke possible to russian propaganda about our supposed inability to fend off democracy . and yet , as ukrainians work toward rebuilding our country after viktor yanukovych a predatory rule , we face a new threat , in the form of a “ peacekeeping offensive ” that the old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve .
in 1973 , dimona dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading to the reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from the past . and , while israel ’s arrow ballistic missile defenses , which now surround dimona , may be superior to the patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds , and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s ’s projectiles . the iraq scud missiles bombarded tel aviv , and one came close to striking dimona . hezbollah ’s bombing of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability in a missile attack .
until recently , investors had hoped that the us federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a recession , because that is what it has done on prior occasions . now , they must recognize that the fed may no longer hold . if interest rates were lowered beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed downward pressure , and long-term bonds would actually go up in yield . moreover , the fed ’s ability to stimulate the economy is constrained by the rest of the world ’s unwillingness to accumulate additional dollar reserves . with oil , food , and other commodities solid , and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed also has to worry about inflation .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in an newsweek issue , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women ’s ’s potential for growth . ” educated , pushy mothers make all the difference . and , when they do marry and have children of her own , they will benefit from two highly educated , employed parents , which means twice as much literate conversations in homs , twice contacts , and twice encouragement to succeed . studies show that helping women access to trade and growing businesses helps to create jobs and boost incomes . but on the planet ’s worst , forcing frightening , uneducated women to remain at home is more socially acceptable than confronting the reality that this means choosing to drag down incomes for everyone .
as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make an effective contribution to european reform . indeed , the last time britain had a strong european voice in the eu was more than two decades ago . one of the factors driving the uk ’s ’s sense of uneasiness in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions are closer to those of the us or to other english-language colonies . the “ other woman ” has been the “ other woman ” undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner . by the 1990 ’s , british euro-skeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and expansionary than that of the eu .
but the battle between pro- and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake , and thus what should be the focus of the electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . the upcoming elections will render the public ’s verdict on the success or failure of the austerity policies it adopted . but it will also determine whether europe will remain the world ’s leading economic power , sustain its social model , and safeguard its framework of rights and liberties in a world that does not wait for europeans to resolve their differences . this question , rather than endless defense against euroskepticism , should be the main item of deliberation for parties pushing for an improved europe for all . broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project .
everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? then there is the concept of systemic risk , which is not only in the beholder ’s eyes but may be impossible to forecast . the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 saw as a systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? americans thought parochial in them ; they thought america unduly influenced by its 2000 mile border with mexico .
but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . concern about such divergences has also hit the task force , headed by european union president herman van rompuy , to devise fundamental reforms to eu economic policy coordination rules . the eurozone ’s southern european members must reduce their wage costs to claw back on the competitiveness that they have lost since adopting the common currency . a key proposal from the task force ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then force member countries to take “ remedial action ” “ remedial action ” should the eu find large divergences . competitiveness , usually measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans traveled to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of a “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , as more people wake up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global resistance movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump is being turned into a lame duck through damning revelations of his administration . better yet , trump could be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment of the american constitution if enough members of his own government deem him incapable of carrying out the duties of the presidency . opposition could adopt three tactics , and if they did .
in the short run , americans would need modest economic sacrifices . and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp increase in gasoline taxes in a country that consumes more than any other : the us . if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would use less of it . no single measure would do more to make the world a less dangerous place than a substantial reduction in its consumption of oil . none of this would happen right away . if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would use less of it .
new york – internet firms are supposedly all about cutting edge , but reality and buzz sometimes conflict . consider groupon : its focus is groups ’ power , but its real business is the old standby of direct-mail marketing and coupons . the model clearly makes sense for many customers : groupon now holds more than 50 million subscribers , and aims for more than 150 million by year-end . but groupon is proliferating that model to a much broader audience – not so much to a user ’s coupon , but rather to vendors offering coupons . indeed , groupon is doing for e-mail marketing what other internet companies do for yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use modern technology to reach their customers .
conspicuously absent from the debate , the role of financial factors in explaining the trend decline in real rates . the prevailing view is that a downward trend largely reflects a fall in equilibrium or a “ natural ” rate of interest rates , driven by changes in saving and investment fundamentals . in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , together with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , has boosted the supply of savings worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived fall in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , because it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates has thus become the subject of lively debate .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley has stressed in his book a new geography of job opportunities , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for over half of the total population in america ’s most affluent metropolitan areas but four times as many in worse-off fields . economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide . in fascinating new research , mit ceo david autor and his co-authors have explored the political consequences . they find that american districts in which the economy was severely hit by chinese exports have responded by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians – either from the left or the right . those who happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the tumult of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and the fortunes of their children and relatives are all highly correlated .
the un commission of inquiry collected information identifying some of those responsible for the crimes it investigated , but failed to make it public . the names of those responsible for responsibility should be disclosed , either by the un human rights council or by another body created by the un human rights council . those to be named should be reported , and given a chance to refute the findings . if they fail to respond , or if their responses are not persuasive , their names and crimes attributed to them should be made public . the human rights council could act on its own , and the un itself should act .
already , le pen seems to be reverting to mold . the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming especially weak and divided , the extreme right is cresting in opinion polls . to be sure , these ingredients could constitute a recipe for disaster . but , if right-wing leaders are at the helm , the january 7 attacks could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained , after being uninvited to a rally the day after the attacks .
that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across both the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and a shift in output to the higher-value-added components of global supply chains . here , the innovation and terms that support it – including competition and free entry and exit from the market – play an important role . if policymakers choose a model based on a large state-dominated sector protected from internal and external competition , the goals of innovation are unlikely to be met , adversely affecting future growth . the non-tradable side , meanwhile , is supposed to grow .
this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a potemkin democracy . this year , another election , neither free nor fair , gives putin another term in office . consider those cases when the elections empower a majority ethnic or religious group , which then rides roughshod over minorities – an outcome that has been seen all too often in the balkan wars , for example . then there is the cases when a leader ’s election is treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of dictatorship . elections alone , of course , do not make democracy .
but iranians are nothing like the nazis , and there is no country like the soviet union posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 . equally problematic has been the tendency to contrast the two sets of negotiations . beyond timing , they have little in common . what they do share is that their “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats made the alternative – no deal at all – much worse . in greece ’s case , negotiations were propelled by the specter of greece ’s embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with his dangerous revisionist ambitions , or acting as a conduit for european migrants .
what , then , if that advantage comes from the performance enhancing drugs ? integrity seems to be an old-fashioned idea , but it is at the heart of who we are , and how we live . when drugs are prohibited but some athletes use them anyway , the playing field tilts in favor of a cheater . for athletes seeking to compete for clean , the threat that they may be beaten by a competitor that is not faster , stronger , or more committed , but who takes a drug to get the edge , is profoundly personal . if we ban drugs in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to deter , detect , and punish those who cheat .
for starters , crisis countries ratcheted down their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of short-term “ hot money . ” more broadly , countries felt pressure from the imf and the american treasury to remove capital-flow restrictions that magnified risk and made pegged exchange rates still more problematic . this crisis sketch highlights how much has changed in the subsequent 20 years . meanwhile , external powers have compounded the problem .
it is not about to be replaced by the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own . the one thing that could precipitate the dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in the us . and , even then , the renminbi would presumably share the international stage with the dollar , not substitute for it . beyond this , the dollar is going nowhere . the renminbi is coming , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai will have become a first-international financial center .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
if americans reject the president 's policies at the polls , america can write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . we are deeply concerned with the direction in which the bush administration embraces both the united states and the world . i and a number of other affluent americans contribute millions of dollars to the grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . in this effort , i committed $ 10 million to " america coming together , " a paypal get-out-the-vote operation and $ 2.5 million to a o’neill voter fund , " a popular internet advocacy group that airing advertisements to highlight the administration 's misdeeds . if american voters endorse those policies , the american people must live with hostility to the bush doctrine , and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence .
after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban have failed – and almost 30 years since the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation , the kremlin has stepped in to mediate in discussions between the taliban and representatives of other afghan groups . but russia is likely to disappoint its supporters in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . there is little reason to think that russia , which has never been particularly inclined toward longstanding peace-building , will be able to mediate , much less underwrite , a durable peace agreement . while russia has not overtaken the us , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . yet the middle east – a region of manifold conflicts stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted commitment by foreign actors .
for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work , but how much . but experience shows that decisions to retire , or to work fewer hours , are influenced by the compensation that members of that group receive . moreover , because of the complex rules that govern the level of social security benefits , the older worker who pay this payroll tax is likely to receive no extra benefit . and that sum partly reflects the fact that employed people who collect social security and medicare are subject to the payroll tax that finances them . the payroll tax paid by employees is 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) , and is in addition to the personal income tax .
if that fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . eu enlargement will provide tremendous impetus across europe , especially the baltic region , from which so many new eu members will emerge . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia 's leaders , and kaliningrad the oblast in designing a viable future for the mediterranean enclave . up to now the eu 's interest in kaliningrad has centered on how to restrict the visa rights that oblast 's citizens now use to backtraverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia . eu enlargement will , however , boost trade and economic growth , and these could provide real incentives to make kaliningrad a more appealing neighbor and trading partner , not just a fear-based source of illicit russian immigrants to the eu that takes advantage of a supposedly lax visa regime .
lev artsimovich , the tokamak ’s inventor , has said that “ fusion will be ready when society needs it . ” but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy the odds , the world should foot the bill on investment in technology . our future may depend on it , and we know it . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained , creating a serious problem for developed and developing countries alike . one hopes that he is right , one of the world ’s things .
the apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that the managing director who made the decision to support greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone , and at that time barely disguwell off his ambitions to run for the french presidency , that is , well before his arrest in new york on rape charges . this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf managing director , and yet christine lagarde , a french finance minister , was named for her success at her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn following her resignation . moreover , europeans dominate the fund ’s headlines . it is a discomforting conflict of interest that debtors dominate an international institution that lends vast sums . would the imf not have insisted on a much tougher program , with less funding , for any country outside the eurozone ?
the eu will need the strongest leadership team it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms . just now , the signs are far from promising . so the three problems that europe will face in the second half of this year are closely connected . there are few new faces or ideas on the horizon , and we must hope to be surprised .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers that women face when they are nominated for elected office and run successful campaigns . such hurdles include the electoral system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single-member districts ) ; lack of access to financing ; weaker professional networks ; and beyond responsibilities that make it more difficult to take charge of punishing and unforeseeable working conditions . in many countries , campaigning costs are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . overcoming such structural impediments requires a comprehensive strategy to support female candidates . one of the most powerful tools is money , which is the right approach .
powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country . given imperfect information about the needs of the future , labor markets are out of equilibrium . the same issues arise everywhere , with differences in outcomes that reflect variability in market flexibility and social-policy choices . this reflects both the public-investment deficiency and the information gap : investing in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like shooting at a moving target . in the us , these adverse trends date back to about 1980 .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the arrival of “ web 2.0 . ” whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of separate information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders an entire process interactive , removing the final frontier separating the transmitter and accessing information . but we have been here before – indeed , for most human history . the sharp divide between producers and consumers of knowledge began only about 300 years ago , when the book printers secured royal protection for their trade in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . the legacy of their success , copyright laws , continues to impede attempts to render cyberspace the free marketplace of thought .
that is somewhat ironic : the dismantling of the uk from the ecj is now one of may ’s principal aims . french president françois hollande was elected on the claim that a world of high finance was his enemy . so the delegation after a delegation of ministers , mayors , and assorted financial-center lobbyists were filling london ’s best hotels and providing a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trading . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have made the glossy presentations about their towns ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ competitive advantages over london : lower wealth costs , lower corporate tax rates ( that sounds plausible when claimed with an irish accent ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and porsche dealerships – all of the essential services that make up a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations have raised a wales or two .
that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to dial up its disruptive activities in a number of theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( they , too , have noted that the uk is europe ’s ’s weak link ) . iran ’s increasing aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , which is reportedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . iran has been understandably frustrated by europe ’s slow progress toward the launch of the instex , a bartering mechanism designed to allow for some trade between europe and iran , despite us sanctions . but those in iran who argue that they have gotten nothing from europe are simply wrong . the danger now is that iran or its proxies in the middle east will misread the situation and cross a red line .
so internal and external auditors are often co-opted . to be sure , american corporate and securities scandals exposed regulators gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example , or excessive reliance on peer review for auditors and so-called " chinese walls " to keep brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . moreover , american accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping 's uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and byzantine contract valuations . finally , managers , rather than distant shareholders , control access to well-paying appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . so executives are quick to embrace " aggressive " or " creative " accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risks , and portrays a smooth track record of profit growth .
countries in asia – indeed , countries throughout the developing world – are simply not exporting their abundant and economically significant genetic resources . this implies potentially enormous economic , environmental , and social losses to both the developed and developing world . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , promised the international regime on access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) of its genetic resources . this would enable researchers and companies to access the developing world ’s genetic treasure trove in return for a share of profits from products that are then developed . but brokering the arabs regime has proved elusive , leaving behind an international agreement that has resulted in diminishing access , and thus a declining benefit-sharing over the last five or so years .
and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them more sustainable – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability are shaking , but not derailing . the second group , led by china , will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries and complicates regional policy choices . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them more sustainable – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake but not derail them . the third european group will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries and complicates regional policy choices .
unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not only to improve the mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of the internet of things and digitalization across economies . and because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europe has struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . a third soft-power area has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . once again , european companies have borne the costs of such measures . unless the euro can be made into the international currency to rival the us dollar , the european economy will remain highly vulnerable to us extraterritoriality .
blinder and watson suggest that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may collectively explain a 56 % growth gap . but it is impossible to know the extent to which these factors have been influenced by america ’s president ’s policies . so what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? we know even less about the factors responsible for another 44 % of the performance gap . in assessing clinton ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers are making a lot of discovery by blinder and watson , which , unlike widespread assumption , fiscal and monetary policies are little more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents , and therefore can not explain a performance differential .
this was proposed late in the bush administration to forge links with some of asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as others across the pacific . in this age of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade . another possibility is for the american people to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . but , with myanmar included , this may be too difficult politically , and asean ’s sub-grouping may be more realistic . this could be built to include other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand , with the eventual aim of an across-the-board agreement , which would be an impressive achievement if realized by the end of 2011 , when it will be obama ’s turn to play host to all leaders .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , much less to prepare to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . this is especially true of those policymaking entities that possess far better tools to address advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges . rather than take advantage of the opportunity afforded by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . as a result , they risk aggravating potential challenges . in the united states , for the fifth year in a row , the us congress has yet to pass a full-fledged budget , let alone address the economy ’s growth and employment headwinds .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector employees – people who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure – receive the type of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan , according to the pension rights center . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector lead , and link politicians ’ pensions to their performance . if politicians receive pensions starting at age 50 , as ryan will , the retirement benefits could realistically be paid out for in the 40-plus years . if politicians receive pensions starting at age 50 , as ryan will , the retirement benefits could realistically be paid out over the 40-plus years . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector lead , and link politicians ’ pensions to their performance .
with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and those from the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . of course , throughout history , the national liberation movements have had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to reach the promised land . this was true of zionism , the italian risorgimento , and most recently catholics in northern ireland . abbas ’ presidential term has expired , and elections are continually deferred . prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keeps parliament inactive , and silences the opposition .
for example , murat kurnaz , a german-born turkish man , was held in guantánamo for four years before he was released last august . the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be another such error . seized by the cia in macedonia , however , the cia has made mistakes before . the commander of the guantánamo task force , hindu admiral harry b. harris , recently defended harsh treatment for his prisoners , saying , “ they ’re all terrorists ; they ’re all enemy combatants . ”
a rotating presidency will be replaced by an elected president . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister – although it is formally denied that title , this is what everyone will call him – with a strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and council . eu citizens will be endowed with legally binding fundamental rights , with majority decisions becoming the common norm . a high price has had to be paid for this agreement . a new balance will be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role for both the european parliament and national parliaments .
cash usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden in the past decade , and is now plummeting by 10 % per year in the united kingdom , while it barely changes in germany . van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience ” shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . the most interesting parts of “ future of finance ” concern how to make payment changes . we must hope that the government can respond that question . cash is in decline in many countries , although rates vary markedly from time to time to time .
for starters , taking the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , an imf loan would entail substituting its “ non-defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund is used primarily to service outstanding bonds . as a result , a group of fortunate bondholders would be bailed out at the expense of those left behind by imf debt , leaving highly vulnerable to a likely restructuring . for the same reason , imf loans can be a burdensome legacy from a market perspective . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed solely on whatever is left of an defaultable private debt , the larger the imf ’s share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability . a second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves – the result of persistent current-account surpluses – the market and interbank short-term interest rates are soaring . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with m2/gdp ratios hovering around 200 % , compared to roughly 80 % in the us . how did this happen , and what should policymakers do about it ? the problem is structural at root . china ’s ’s currency stock is relatively plentiful .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs that focus on these types of health challenges , far more is needed . another problem is that the region ’s education and training programs are not encouraging enough systemic thinking . worldwide , public-health policies are shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and management science and the humanities . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind in the global standard . technology and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will be ineffective if they are not tailored to meet local people ’s true needs .
given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that a victorious republican will be france ’s next president . more telling , of course , will be the party primary in november . in terms of age and profile , he resembles a french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise than the conquest of power . and , though juppé remains far ahead in opinion polls so far , the french could reject his happy version of french identity in favor of sarkozy ’s much darker one . still , i believe that juppé will most likely emerge as france ’s next president .
and , perhaps most importantly , what are the optimal trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more effectively for a common european future ? under the banner of “ simplifying , ” the “ how ” gravitates toward outsourcing to agencies that are supposed to be endowed , one hopes , with greater flexibility to fulfill their particular missions . this demands a smoothly working and far more efficient interface between eu agencies and the european commission , which retains overall control over them , as well as a rigorous revision of financial regulation in the eu and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . some tough political choices lie ahead : which parts of the eu framework program are to be pursued and that terminated ? how can innovations that are never just technological , but social as well , be achieved and fully exploited ?
desperation and alienation have taken hold of the younger generation of arabs , representing over 50 % of the region ’s population . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the devastating blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on the coming war with iran . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , the war is likely to play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . political repression and arab public opinion ’s silence should worry america and its arab allies , not to reassure them , because it means that there is no way for the public to channel its interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . america ’s invasion of iraq , with large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen the sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab young youths , forcing them to join al qaeda-style holy war cells .
a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close down . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . by committing to purchase more russian gas than necessary , and , for longer , the eu would help to finance russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace . but nord stream 2 would make those woes inevitable .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , despite the threat ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . but there really is no mystery . pharmaceutical companies pay players throughout the health-care system to favor their more expensive drugs over lower-priced alternatives . and those who should be acting as defense watchdogs for patients are happy to go along . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , the arab world , too , has many homegrown problems , including inefficient and inefficient governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . though the arab world has traditionally been conservative , almost 70 % of its citizens are below the age of 35 , with young people suffering the highest rates of unemployment in most countries . this constitutes not only tremendous resource waste , but also serious long-term sociopolitical problem . but while there are many reasons to blame foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will solve nothing . disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future in which a majority of citizens feel disenfranchised .
since unicef began emphasizing the hiring of women for its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women , and almost 62 % of nigeria ’s vaccinators are female . let us not forget that the risks that these women are taking to protect everyone from a malady that has taken an enormous toll on global health . as polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with the complete eradication of our sights , we might allow polio to return . to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle , solutions – whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay – are crucial to tackling the obstacles they face .
in the us , about one-third of the adult population has become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking . ” the us has no effective regulatory framework for internet platforms , and it lacks the political will to create one . a large minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits to filter bubbles created by such platforms , the digital false realities in which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme . western democracies are poised to come to terms with this threat .
when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush said that he expects them to be treated humanely . “ if not , ” the president warned , “ the men mistreat prisoners will be treated as war criminals . ” president bush ’s remarks drove home the importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , and to the question of how war crimes trials can be convened in postwar iraq and who will conduct them . american officials recently released a list of iraqis facing trial for past crimes . america ’s plan for war crimes covers violations committed before the current conflict began .
second , today ’s algorithms become very good at pattern recognition when they are provided with big data sets , discover objects in youtube videos , or detecting a credit card fraud , but they are far less effective with unusual circumstances that do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or a little noisy . to handle such cases , you need a skilled person , with his or her experience , intuition , and social awareness . third , the latest systems can not explain what they have done , or why they are recommending a particular course in action . when interpretability is important , for example , in a wide range of medical applications , you need a trained human in the decision-making loop . in these “ black boxes , ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what is happening or to check if there is a hidden bias .
a second important area of progress has been the reform of russia ’s federation : the establishment of federal districts and reform of the federation council . the country also advanced down the road of fiscal federalism : channeling all of its vat into the federal budget and income taxes to regions , makes for a sensible system of checks on budgetary resources among tiers of authority . these changes are controversial , but a federation whose laws are ignored by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which the observance of the laws depends on the whim of local administrators simply can not exist . as a result , russia today is a realistic , even if imperfect , federation . president putin ’s moves to strengthen an integrated power system are thus logical and right .
some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the us security cabinet , have quickly voiced concern over the arms deal . for israel , that is more than a little on the issue . within israel , many worry that trump is merely trying to appease israel with rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as the mainstay of us interests in the region . but , given trump ’s failure to take a real stand on any of the core areas of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status – the idea that he plays some well-thought-out long play on the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched . it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians .
and the weaknesses in the london housing market do not appear to have spread elsewhere . in fact , in the northwestern , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward upward . if this trend is endure , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . strengthening the north ’s housing markets could do wonders to reverse the troubling regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades . one thing that we can be absolutely certain is that the government should pursue policies to engage with the north powerhouse , and perhaps with the “ midlands engine , ” ” as well .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational companies ( mncs ) are betting on the global economy ’s rules to minimize their fiscal responsibility , or even eliminate it altogether . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the idea of a unitary tax is gaining traction . and , for some time now , the independent commission on the reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for us mncs ’ unitary taxation . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the third step must be an expanded research and development program into new , more effective approaches to controlling the disease . this includes : funding to stop the transmission of maternal to infant aids ; funds to help fight infections such as tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and with good program design , even funds for anti-anti-retroviral therapies . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and drugs provided to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , arv therapies can be scaled up to even very poor countries at an acceptable price . the most promising answer for the long term is a vaccine to protect against disease . recent breakthroughs in basic science give hope that a vaccine can be developed within a decade if billions of dollars of research and development are mobilized by both the public and private sectors .
in fact , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – during their lifetime . clearly , a global shift is needed in gender-related attitudes and standards . but violence against women can be extremely difficult to detect . to that end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices , policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination , while preventing violence , including by punishing its perpetrators . even those who recognize it may choose to ignore it , believing that it is none of their business , or too widespread to make a difference , or because they are too busy to get involved .
this month , new mayors took office without the electoral commission ( cse ) made public 100 % of the popular vote , an open violation of nicaraguan electoral law . and , when citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence to curb them . although managua ’s electoral fraud was the most widely documented , the same modus operandi occurred across the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . despite complaints by the catholic church ’s episcopal conference , chambers of commerce , and political parties , the cse refused to allow a recount of ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . thus , the fsln government proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of 153 municipalities .
moving from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is mere technicality . even if putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution – a possibility that reflected endlessly in russia ’s dwindling democrats ’ band – the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly obvious . what makes this work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . it has been said that presidential democracy only reinforces russian political culture ’s tendency to favor a “ strong hand ” rulers , ” ” whereas a parliamentary system would allow for a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power . putin will be czar , no matter what office formally is .
the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( which they largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of a “ stability ” ? morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after his victory in international acclaim for his successful efforts to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also return with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration , and israel ’s general election , demanding an answer within a few months .
and it was the alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for a very different form of majoritarian democracy . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough . in many circles , it came to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civic liberties – had to be reinforced . the word “ liberalism ” does not mean the same for all people .
essentially , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy , but all european boats . in fact , the likelihood is that such reforms will sink all boats , giving populists a chance . in that case , which variety of populist will seize the opportunity ? despite talk of a “ green economy ” and calls for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . the economist dani rodrik is pointing the appeal of populism to focus .
the first shock was intensified by a globalization that has brought a lot of new low-wage competition . though globalization is a gradual process , it gained momentum when china decided to play the game . china is ten times the size of japan , and japan was not easy to deal with , either . for example , german precision instruments and the fiber-optic equipment lost their competitive edge when japan entered the game . the second shock was eu integration , including the northern and southern enlargements .
america ’s deteriorating fiscal position is leading to a strong dollar , just as america ’s deteriorating fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago did . in a dynamic economy , as long as jobs are lost in one sector , new jobs are being created in another . it is government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment . while countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for exports and good for imports . government ’s role is to facilitate labor movements from one to another .
defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculations . by contrast , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december have shown , on sovereign freedom of action as well . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is the cornerstone of all their external actions . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooled sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many grand issues – climate change , nuclear proliferation , that bedevil our world . but on the great issues of war , peace , and the balance of power , europe seems trapped between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and uncertainty among individual countries about how to define and secure their national interests .
the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but received 46 % of the vote . despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s president boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic probably not in serbia ) to testify against milosevic . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg trials , the international community convened it during , not after , a war . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal , paying for it . without full control of either evidence or accused , the icty lacked from the start of “ victors ’ legitimacy and authority of justice . ”
for starters , the global financial meltdown and the subsequent recession laid bare the effects of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undercutting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are best at shaping societal outcomes . moreover , china – the embodiment of a go-to growth movement – has signaled a policy shift toward pursuit of better social and environmental outcomes alongside more subdued gdp gains . to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has risen . but a new approach is also based on the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance between ecology and economics . this shift is tantamount to a third , broader trend : the world is a growing understanding of where the planet is headed environmentally , particularly in terms of climate change .
johannesburg – my country has liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has essentially taken away my right even to write the word . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving information on issues related to sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion law . as part of my work , i often edit educational materials for the ngo ’s work on hiv prevention . as a doctor in south africa , i have provided abortion services for more than a decade . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration – the ngo i was working for stopped the distribution of a reproductive-health guide , because it contained south african information ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to an abortion .
is there an alternative to sending ground troops back into the middle east ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea stand forever ? indeed , how can america respond firmly to russian aggression without forsaking the long-term project of bringing it closer to the west ? how should it approach china ’s creation not only on the ground , but on the ground itself , in the south china sea ? the electoral campaign is heating up at a time when america is facing a daunting set of problems .
the world can not and does not wilt in the face of such extremism wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to over 60 active members . since september , we have retaken 700 square kilometers of territory . we have deprived the group of usage – and resulting revenues – of 200 oil and gas facilities . the us has undermined its command structure , undermined its propaganda , took out half of its senior management , squeezed its funding , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel .
academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing america ’s soft power . when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , not artillery , brought it down . while some american skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technologies , they failed to notice that visitors vacuumed up political ideas alongside scientific secrets . many of these scholars had become leading proponents of human rights and liberalization within the ussr . unfortunately , bush did not learn this lesson ; he was not .
forty years ago , japan represented a “ asian west . ” today , chinese-style and indian-style modernity is mentally destabilizing japan . its aging population watches resignedly as a new , younger asia , becomes just as important for america as europe was during the cold war . after all , if china is america ’s principal economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s main diplomatic partner , what is left for japan ? george w bush ’s approach was to view india as the “ anti-china , ” ” and thereby strike a balance between the world ’s “ largest democracy ” against the world ’s “ oldest civilization . ”
new york – the global recession now underway is the result not only of financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the future direction of the global economy . consumers are pulling back from home and automobile purchases , not only because they have struck a blow to their wealth with falling stock and housing values , but also because they are unaware of where to turn . decisions about business investment are even starker . should they risk buying a new car when gasoline prices might soar again ? will they be able to put food on the table after this year ’s impressive oil-price spikes ?
the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal location for german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were murdered . this is why poland is right to insist that the camps not be called “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) . they were german camps in occupied poland . no trace of polish authority remained . everywhere else in german-controlled europe , the nazis had to deal , sometimes in an extremely complicated way , with local governments , if only for tactical reasons .
india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors . brazil ’s embraer revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that others have imitated . in the telecoms sector , there is now a half-dozen emerging-market multinationals on the global top ten . the main suppliers to the world ’s telecoms firms are found in china , where huawei is now head to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , finishing second to japan ’s panasonic in 2009 .
meanwhile , the bulk of its obligations are social security and health care , which can not be inflated away . what would help is if their nominal disposable incomes rise relative to their ( fixed ) debt service . yet , with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households could end up worse off – with higher food and fuel prices driving down disposable income . even for distressed households that have borrowed long terms , the effects of higher inflation are dubious . even america ’s government , with its debt duration of about four years , would be unlikely to benefit much from an inflation surprise unless it was huge .
of course , with turkey ’s term at the g20 ’s helm having barely begun , xi probably has not yet settled on specific priorities . unless he missed opportunities to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade agreement while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit , he certainly will not pass a chance to ensure that the g20 ’s agenda serves china ’s interests . but some potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent . elements of the g-20 ’s current agenda align well with china ’s on domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure . though china ’s leadership will , it is hoped , lack the drama of 2009 , president xi jinping will undoubtedly create an impression of being his own .
new york – in the wake of the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported revolutionary gains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of the monarchy and church congregated on the right . marine le pen , whose national front is affiliated with the far right , disagrees : to macron , who has served as minister in a socialist government , is a leftist . hence the political terms “ left ” and the “ right . ” emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither the right nor the left . many commentators on the french presidential election have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , anywhere else .
we should toast the likely successes : some form of the financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trading moves to exchanges and clearing houses from the shadows of murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be restricted . but the likely setbacks are equally noteworthy : the too-big-to-fail banks ’ problem is worse today than it was before the crisis . as a result , it will probably be a long time before we can judge the success of whatever law the american congress ultimately enacts . but the criteria for judgment are clear : a new law must curb practices that are jeopardizing the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system toward its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially for small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating an efficient payments system . moreover , the outrageous fees charged on every debit transaction – a kind of tax that does not for any public purpose but fill banks ’ coffers – seem likely to be curbed .
that is why german and french critiques of the eu generally focus on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british often strike at the european project itself . to be sure , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . but when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are highly likeminded , while germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind . the uk is naturally closer to nato than france is . to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify as europeans , as opposed to uk citizens who identify as british – or even as english , iranian , scottish , or welsh .
the long-term implications of the agreement stand in sharp contrast with both obama ’s 2010 budget proposal and the republicans ’ counterproposal . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rates permanently for all taxpayers , except those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 . by agreeing to limit current tax rates for just two years , the tax package lowers the projected national debt at the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s budget ) by some $ 2 trillion , or close to 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . while the new tax law is generally described as a form of fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a great instant fiscal contraction . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rates permanently for all taxpayers , except those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 .
spending on automobiles ground to a halt until the government ’s stimulus programs in a number of countries revived it . but schemes , such as public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars , have simply led many to reschedule their purchases . the response to the crisis will be a hastening of the movement toward on-line groceries , in which physical locations are no longer a preeminent part of shopping decisions . the crisis has also exposed the scale of america ’s massive over-capacity in the retail market , with estimates forced to close to one-fifth of american shopping malls . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 , at the expense of retail sales in 2010 and the ensuing years .
virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as well as obedience within a stratified society . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue gives the ruler the people . indeed , confucianism became the chinese state ’s official ideology two centuries before the birth of christ . confucianism was essentially the government ’s philosophical justification of a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . possessing the people , confucianism would give him the territory .
but syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , diminishing hezbollah ’s arms-control lines while enabling the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . a damascene conversion is not only possible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the only way to extricate syria from the deadly iranian embrace is to draw it into a regional peace scheme . the three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah is now the most realistic scenario . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s ba’athist regime ’s ’s paranoiac nature , syrians are unlikely to meet america ’s condition for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and their marriage with terror .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the last two decades , wealth resided mostly in the bangkok metropolitan region , a boon for the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority . thailand ’s farms became increasingly alienated from the urban elite . while rural residents had more than enough to eat , their economic opportunities and upward mobility were constrained by a shoddy education and docile state-run media , which fed them soap operas and formal messaging . for nobody to become somebody , all highways led to bangkok and its prestigious prep schools and universities . recognizing this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , thaksin upending the elite consensus that has long prevailed .
by setting an example of coexistence , they can alleviate the fears among alawites in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of the anti-alawite sunni regime . “ depriving the sectarian card regime is crucial in its ouster , ” the conference ’s organizing committee noted . some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who took part in the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others have been expatriates , including activists and religious leaders who have been forced to navigate syria for supporting the revolution . the delegates – joined by several sunni opposition members – denounced assad , declaring their unwavering support for a united , democratic country that offers full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or ethnic background . if alawites and sunnis living abroad can stand united against the assad regime , so can their counterparts inside syria .
china announced its plans for the aiib shortly after the ndb articles of agreement was signed in 2014 . though equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter . in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to the upfront subscribed capital . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % equity , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ”
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in the us ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that drew broad bipartisan support . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially given that lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . and it is particularly bizarre that , even as us policy toward mexico has greatly increased the chances of anti-american chávez-type becoming president , officials are yielding positive publicity to a government that is a caricature of disastrous us governance . rather than bashing latin america , the american need to show that it can be a steady and principled friend that does not be swayed by corrupt bribes of any kind . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , policies that drew broad bipartisan support .
a similar solution should be found for the european constitution . europe can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . indeed , the political imperative is as great a constitutional one . europe , after all , is committed to democracy worldwide . but in europe ’s way of thinking , democracy must be spread pacifically by persuasion , not arms force .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as physicians with special training
trump appreciates what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , using his vast earnings from exports to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also suggested that america will work with india to forge an indo-pacific security zone . in any case , the potential of the region ’s us-india security cooperation , while only hinted at in trump ’s speech , seems to have already been debated by both governments . the implications of trump ’s speech extend beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . the address also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what might be called the “ trump doctrine . ”
it has organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , japan ’s reconstruction , and more . under that order , the rest of the world has closed much of the vast technological , educational , and infrastructural gap with the us . as economists put it , global growth has been “ convergent , ” and ” meaning that poorer countries have been catching up . china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than the us , though still only around one-fourth the size in per capita terms . the share of the world economy represented by the us has declined by roughly half ( to around 16 % currently ) .
a focus on corporate social responsibility could help to ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while energy – and resource-efficiency requirements could help to safeguard sustainability . of course , achieving this goal , not to mention the other sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . indeed , as a report by the international committee on sustainable development finance points out , the spectrum of financing for future frameworks in international development must be broader than ever . given budgetary constraints in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and can not be relied on to fill that need . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure , and incentives for innovation are also crucially important .
for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes that were then reallocated to oil users , they would be unambiguously good . shifts to more energy-efficient purposes are the result of transportation ease congestion . to be sure , most taxes entail a heavy “ excess burden ” : costs are vastly greater than the value of the revenues raised because of potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . a oil tax , however , does not impose an excess burden . on the contrary , it implies excess benefits .
you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy and nutritional bars , vitamin a – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods , and practically anything with health claims . so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those to which producers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , soy or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to allow them to reap “ qualified ” health claims permitted by the food and drug administration ( fda ) . if you routinely buy such foods , you are among the lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) consumers – the health-care industry ’s cherished demographic base . like many people , i thought that small , innovative companies dominate functional foods . sales of lesser-evil and functional foods have done well in recent years , bringing in some $ 85 billion in america ’s sale in 2004 .
above all , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration , germany and italy , were culturally and politically highly diverse . the common market was defended at the outset in terms of the bargains that would follow from increased trade . all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , was similar . unity , supposedly , is a foundation of prosperity .
according to a recent study , impact investing in the us would not exist without the support of and partnerships with the federal government through grants , loans , and guarantees . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and must be an essential feature of all government programs . recently , the obama administration proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . in a sib , government contracts with an outside provider to achieve a measurable social goal ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) ; private impact investors finance the program ’s upfront costs ; and the government promises a return to them if program targets are met . several existing federal programs , like the commonwealth reinvestment act , and the small business investment corporation , support the growth of impact investing money .
china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in the fight against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and increasingly to regard western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices – 14 million dead – and of its major contribution to holding more than a half-million japanese troops also reflect the partisan history of the war taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp led the resistance against japan . their presence indicates that , behind the parade of martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader , more complicated story of china ’s wartime experience is emerging . foreign assistance – including a major american role in wartime china – had no place in this story .
but are these newfound wealth effects really enough ? yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high – but only in the current us dollars . in real terms , the s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak . likewise , while the case-shiller us home price index is now up 10.2 % year on year ending in march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
yet that distinction may not be as powerful as the socialists may believe . after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron elected . and they knew what they voted for : each policy that he implemented thus far was included in his campaign platform . the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues – europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and more – which makes it extremely difficult to identify what exactly constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays . in fact , the socialists began to distinguishing themselves not from what they are , but from what they are not , touting the line , neither macron nor mélenchon ’s ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) .
there is even less risk in saudi arabia alone , where king abdullah recently promised more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the few saudi demonstrations appear populated almost completely by minority shia , finding little sympathy among majority sunnis , and foreign construction workers petitioning against higher wages and better working conditions . nor does iran ’s government appear to be facing a real danger . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than recent media accounts for unrest in the country ’s south suggest . the brutal crackdown on post-election protests in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by any means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the last century ’s wars . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption – and all but forgotten by the international community . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not quite in the same category as central america ’s other three . but there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike them , however , successive governments have built institutions capable of supporting a reasonable level of territorial control and domestic security .
as growth has slowed , public expenditures have declined , fueling economic insecurity . moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . no longer content with merely displacing aging autocrats , the protesters are also targeting key elements of a deep state and security forces . ten governments in the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios over 75 % . even where fiscal adjustment has barely started , the old rent-distributing model has become unaffordable , turning the population against regimes that seem unable or unwilling to make a convincing reformist effort .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is casting this carefully calibrated system into disarray . it is reflected in its pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations , a valid demand , but also to continue to channel that spending on us-made weapons systems . far from displaying a capacity to persuade , as the title of his book the art of the deal may imply , trump is trying to use raw power alone to push his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is also apparent in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported enemies .
a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stocks and flows of the national account to capture all of the dangers , including risk in the financial system and the real economy , as well as broader risk issues . as we have seen in the recent crises , private risk taking and debt are socialized when a crisis occurs . so , even when public deficits and debt are low before a crisis , they can rise sharply after one erupts . governments that looked fiscally sound suddenly , if not impossible , seem insolvent . using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified a number of countries where investors are missing risks and opportunities .
in recent years , i have been heavily involved in the policy aspects of this great city ’s economic revival . i chaired the economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as chair of the green cities growth commission , which advocated for a “ north powerhouse , ” a program to link britain ’s cities to a cohesive economic unit . subsequently , i joined david cameron ’s government briefly , helping to implement the early stages of the north powerhouse . i never attended a concert at the manchester arena , but it appears to be a large venue for the city . abedi ’s barbaric act , by contrast , killed at least 22 people , many of them children .
nile delta – some 60 kilometers north of cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 – there is a secondary school students calling “ prison . ” one teacher in the sleepy nile delta village village village morbidly quips that it doubles as a morgue . a deformed box of concrete packaged with dilapidated classrooms , a school is pockmarked with age and neglect . “ we have never seen a revolution here , ” he said several months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing a job . “ many hope that we have now been dead … .
unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected fall in real gnp is highly optimistic , because it relies on a variety of implausible and/or controversial prerequisites . the five flaws in the board ’s fiscal plan stand out . first , projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp fall due to each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for gnp forecasts assume that the one-dollar contraction in the primary fiscal deficit is associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . yet the ten-year fiscal plan , approved by the 2017-2026 board – which inevitably forms the basis of debt-restructuring debates – appears to ignore this circularity . the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity , and will weaken israel ’s debt sustainability , thus perpetuating a crisis that all parties want to end .
i propose that the world ’s open societies shape alliances with a dual purpose : fostering both the evolution of open societies in individual countries and the evolutionary process of a global open society . such control is harmful to the evolution of open societies . eliminating this constraint might endanger the bank ’s triple-a credit rating , but it makes it more effective . the first involves development assistance ; the second , strengthening international institutions such as the international central bank and the world development agency . such an alliance requires cooperation not only of governments , but also of civil society .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . accra , a planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced out of the federal title x family-planning program that supports low-income women . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration ’s forbidding title x clinics from referring patients to abortion – will cost planned parenthood some $ 60 million annually .
in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought to be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet in kosovo , the unemployment rate stood at 45 % six years after its war ended . yet post-conflict employment policies almost always neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given these flaws , it is not surprising that employment policies ’ policies ’ net effects are often very small relative to the size of the problem . for example , employment policies did little to reduce the intense regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina following the wars that erupted in the 1990s .
we will engrave in our hearts the past , when japan ended up becoming a challenger to the international order . japan will make even larger efforts to fight poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence , and offer opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance in all of the world ’s peoples . prosperity is the very foundation of the peace process . we will strengthen aid to the developing world and lead the world toward further prosperity . on this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values such as freedom , democracy , and human rights as un values , and , by working hand in hand with countries that share such values , hoist the flag of “ proactive contributions to peace , ” and contribute to global peace and prosperity more than ever before .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the helm of those welcoming democratic change and participation . although they account for just 20 % of the saudi total , they constitute a majority of -75 % – of the oil-rich region ’s population . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered discrimination in professions : the military , high government posts , the diplomatic corps , and , most dramatically , the oil industry , where they have been excluded since the 1980s . this systematic neutering of shia in saudi arabia is legitimating the wahhabi religious establishment , and has supported numerous fatwas denouncing them as heresy . in bahrain , shia who comprise 75 % of the population have been keen on reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products , such as anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund built a massive supply chain to deliver goods . in the process , deaths from aids fell by more than 50 % from their peak , and malaria deaths declined by roughly 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new funding to continue that work . the replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost because of the sheer number of lives it will help to save .
depression can be cured , but only by giving the patient a positive vision of the future . the far-right centrist parties – the union of the right forces and yabloko – do have such a vision , and the people know it . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest people are washing away their hands of politics . the higher educational attainment , it seems , the lower voter participation : among those who never vote , the percent of people with higher education is twice as high as that of people without a college education . this is a sort of political depression , and it is the result of it .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more lasting alliances , such as nato . this last point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , particularly at this late stage , alter the fundamental perception of that intervention , both within and outside the arab world . only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can ensure the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – demands .
when we estimated how much variation among individuals could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were shorter and first gave birth when younger had more children . that left 95 % of the variation , which explains the effects of culture and individual choices . personal decisions , nutrition , income levels , education , and religious affiliation all enter the mix . but genes are only one of many factors that influence height and age at first birth .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect european leaders to step under as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they have allowed one of the jewels of post-world war ii european integration – the european court of human rights ( echr ) – to come under threat . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought assistance – far more than can expect a reasoned decision . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions per year . )
in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may seem to serve vital purposes . one deploys soldiers to fight terrorism ; another provides critical energy supplies or access to raw materials . as security expert sarah sachs argues against corruption , the volume of essays that the british government publicizes to accompany the summit , corruption today is structured practice . one deploys soldiers to fight terrorism ; another provides critical energy supplies or access to raw materials . to identify the best possible approach in each specific case , governments must analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence and data collection .
willingly or not , some may seek recourse to inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic savings into state-financed financing and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) or , eventually , outright debt restructuring . all three unorthodox remedies have been used in past debt crises , and in the future . is it preferable to adjust fully ? after all , they can be considered alternative forms of taxation , albeit implicit rather than explicit . ultimately , they are different methods of forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt .
george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called “ the vision thing . ” after the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision . when pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied , “ it ’s just not me . ” but one has to be wary of the visions . sometimes leaders think that vision can solve most of their problems , but a mistaken vision – or an overly ambitious vision – can do the damage .
moreover , according to america ’s recent energy report , the number of jobs in wind and solar industries increased by 32 % , and by 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing away from their climate commitments . in the us , wind energy costs have fallen by more than two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale solar power costs have declined by 85 % . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which have embraced climate-minded technological innovations . and the private sector has come around to viewing renewable energies as a potentially lucrative business .
already , spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are beginning to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a significant slowdown , and india ’s gdp growth rate is expected to decline to roughly 6 % this year . moreover , if conditions in the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could suffer even more severely . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base , together with ample room for policy maneuvers , can help it avoid a hard landing . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the financial sector , along with local governments , could undermine efforts to safeguard growth . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers , can help it avoid a hard landing .
using historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experienced the deceleration of us economic growth after their per capita gdp reached about $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the constant 1990 ’s us dollar prices , or $ 17,000 in perpetual 2005 american dollar prices . for example , in the five years after japan reached that level , its economy grew at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold by roughly this year , many believe that its average annual growth rate over the next five years will fall well short of 7 % . in south korea , growth fell to 4.8 % , to the lowest level in the twentieth century . in hong kong , it slowed to 5.8 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . pompeo ’s primaries of attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” that it included the united states ’ public admission ’ past missteps in the region .
some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in the past – are from small countries . giving big countries permanent seats on the executive board also makes it easier for their politicians to control the ecb through the process of appointments . the last thing the ecb needs is the political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder assuming mr. issing ’s core post . preventing small countries – like other large ones – from competing for specific vacant seats reduces the executive board ’s potential competency . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet of the governing council in a system of open competition than under current arrangements .
but labor costs have risen much faster in the south , resulting in differential cost increases that can not be addressed through devaluation as long as the monetary union endures . indeed , excessive wage deflation is likely to have negative productivity effects . skilled labor is likely to emigrate more rapidly , with extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment and the resulting likelihood of social tension – not exactly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility . as long as this internal divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be fully addressed , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign-debt and commercial banks . against this backdrop , productivity growth whether through technical progress , better resource allocation , or productive investment is as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint .
indeed , the key elements of a modern british identity all seem to belong to england rather than to a composite entity . of course , that does not mean that there is no single identity . an institution called english heritage curates the past , from the prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old country houses that are celebrated in television costume dramas . likewise , a established or state church is the church of england , created almost 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . former prime minister john major called the uk “ a country of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm crooks , invincible green suburbs , dog mistresses , and pools fillers , and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids bicycling to a holy communion to a holy communion through the morning fog … ” but what he truly describing is england .
that stance makes the alliance far more an equals than it has been over the past six decades . in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe has pledged – thereby allowing japan ’s self-defense forces to aid allies under attack , and assisting the american and other allies in meeting their commitments to secure asia ’s peacekeeping force – has been long overdue . that bold political initiative , in the face of japan ’s deep-rooted skepticism toward any increased exposure to military risks , has no doubt endeared abe to american diplomats and military strategists , as well as secured both open and sometimes tacit approval from japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is especially important now , given american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness . both abe and obama are focused on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play a more active role in this regard and in supporting his allies .
the matter of who occupies the presidency during this transition is certainly not inconsequential . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are public knowledge . iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and , as citizens ’ long lines eager to cast their votes have made clear , the iranians know it . with khamenei having served as president before ascending to iran ’s supreme political and religious leadership position , it is easy to see that the conservative candidate , raisi , had he was elected , could become khamenei ’s successor . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ not low . ”
furthermore , north korea ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as a state are fueling deep anxieties among its neighbors . yet , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . the recent trilateral summit in china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , in addition to meetings that are taking place at international gatherings such as asean summits . unfortunately , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have not yet made any headway on the most sensitive security issues that divide them . but this lack of quick success does not mean that these efforts are futile .
and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers are benefiting immensely from low-cost chinese imports – the walmart effect – that enable them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes . for more than 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served the two countries well in compensating for their inherent saving imbalances while satisfying their respective growth agendas . but here the past should not be viewed as prologue . in fact , china has made a conscious strategic decision to alter its growth strategy . a seismic shift is at hand , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well be the tipping point .
ten-year us treasury bonds now yield just 2.5 % . reaching yield has also narrowed credit spreads between high-grade bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds . a rise in the ten-year yield to 4 % would lower the value of these bonds substantially . other long-term bonds , both government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer similar declines . with the current inflation rate over 2 % and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by five-year , five-year-forward inflation expectations ) , the yield on ten-year treasury bonds should be above 4 % .
without that confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity will be constrained . moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages aggravate their need to deleverage . moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages aggravate their need to deleverage . falling employment lowers wage and pay incomes , and so on . without that confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity will be constrained .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation all over the world may have served its firms well , even if they impose large costs on others . the risk today is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and abused to serve some of the same interests . have those who pushed back on deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms ? has change gone hand in hand with mere strategy ?
and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , the recovery is spreading to other sectors . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere . wage restraint and productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . in short , the credibility that iran has gained through resolute fiscal policy and reform has helped to restore confidence , facilitating a return to growth , and thus fiscal consolidation . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere .
and , while the rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as a default , the talmudic sages reveal us why a more thoughtful classification is required . as this scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle and peer pressure are needed . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of an eventual write-down actually add to a superior outcome . thus , under this model , and despite initial pressure , bondholders ’ behavior could be considered truly voluntary . a third component is the exercise of suasion on bondholders to achieve maximum participation , obtain binding pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders .
in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange system ; money merely tracks the value of the gifts we give one another . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good in a narrow set of skills or products , and exchange them for millions of other things we have no clue as to do or make . this observation is as true of the individual as it is about the eu , whether the eu is an area , a town , a state , or a country . as a consequence , the us ends up doing remarkably few things and buys anything else from others . every town has grocery shops , beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters that serve local communities .
another consortium began the construction of multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia to turkey and the west . but these investments have brought no economic trickle down . the pipelines ’ oil and gas pipelines are transport conduits , not real employers . moreover , georgia ’s reward for providing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil was not dollars , but a policy of diplomatic insurance – that is , western , especially the us , concern for the union ’s safety . people here survive on a few dollars a day , and the other two .
even in hong kong , where equities recently hit new highs , they are down to just 10 % above their peak in early 1994 . over the same three year period , prices in wall street and europe have skyrocketed by 60 % or more . policymakers warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” this picture bears no relation to what we hear in political speeches or reading in business newspapers . japanese shares are worth more than half their 1990 prices , and they are up to a record low .
strong central institutions responsible for a directly elected parliament are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . national banking systems should be unified , in order to separate private losses from sovereign debt , centralized supervision , and resolution authorities , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme , forming the core of the european banking union . germany ’s reluctance to lead on these issues partly reflects historical inhibitions , which are always difficult to overcome . in the shorter term , the single market should be extended to services , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners such as the united states . austerity should be eased , especially in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small and medium-size firms in over-indebted countries .
just consider the massive access to education of its vast rural population in contrast to its “ democratic rival ” india . china , which has just been celebrating with martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the “ people ’s republic ” ” , constitutes one of the most intriguing cases of a nation evincing “ brief sightedness ” in the direction of its past . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn apart by wars internal and external , is on the verge of becoming the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , while far from being distributed equally equally , is china ’s relative political stability , even as the regime ’s opening remains severely constrained , is undeniable and deserving of respect . in its recent history , china has a lot to show .
but , in the absence of its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the profits of central-bank operations that typically benefit a national treasury ) . all things considered , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the outset , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates according to domestic economic conditions . perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in a crisis . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably ask from a young sovereign like scotland could be minimized by sterling ’s issuance of debt , thereby protecting investors from additional devaluation risk . by allowing for exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that arise in a currency union : undervaluation , which generates inflationary pressure and overvaluation that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , services expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector produces close to 60 % of russia ’s output . while the transition was bound to be painful , russia ’s epidemic of corruption caused more political damage than the economic side-effects of reform . the government , and thus economic reform , pays for this neglect at the polls . corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering allowed opponents to say that the “ mafia ” was grabbing the gains from economic change .
though he does not sacrifice major moral principles for power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . he crams his party with mediocrities , selects mostly bad advisers , and does not listen to the rare good ones . he is neither corrupt nor a war criminal , neither of which is aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor is he likely to bend the rule of law to popular power . it is conceivable that his image as right-of-center democrats conceals a reactionary who wants to restore serbia ’s pre-wwii monarchy , and for the orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life . many people voted for him by default , both now and when he defeated miloševic in 2000 .
or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure of being seen on television . they will allow themselves to be intoxicated by the sight of luminaries and la france d’en haut ( elite france ) , seeming to eat from our hands and hanging on their every word . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hate to win out over genuine fraternity and choose wrecking over reforming , they will incite only mayhem , not improvement , to the lives of the humble and vulnerable . the yellow vests must choose : democratic re-invention , or an updated version of the national socialist leagues ; a willingness to repair , or an urge to destroy , the impulse to destroy . they will careen from the darkest side of the political night , and end in history ’s dustbin , where they can rub elbows with those other yellows , early-twentieth-century yellow socialists ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry .
what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failure in iran ? according to vice president iranian-turkish business councils , it is extremely complicated to do business in iran . a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate in stark terms : “ it is as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with foreign partners . ” others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” which supposedly fears that iran and turkey could become too powerful .
essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are also significantly less available and proportionally more expensive for people in low - and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . this disparity has prompted the medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ social justice issue of our time . ” moreover , we must invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that are suited for low-resource settings . smart collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to devise effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions are desperately needed . diabetes is not unique among ncds ; it is a smart disease that can help .
every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases the economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including its list of prior recommendations and its implementation status . but an international organization should be judged according to the quality of the information and advice that it provides , not by whether governments listen . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores purpose : spur – and facilitate – reform by informing officials about its costs and benefits . south orange , new jersey – if an international organization made recommendations for improving a country ’s economy , and the country adopted fewer than half of them , the organization might look like a failure . in its 2010 survey of the oecd , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . moreover , he will need to keep all alternatives on the table , even as military possibilities become less tenable in the context of the inter-korean dialogue . most important , he will need to get the north korean regime to at least acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and agree on a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he has described has “ the worst deal ever . ” then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet .
another way of looking at germany ’s election outcome , then , is as an opportunity for a new beginning . germany ’s mid-term coalition negotiations are now under way , and , with the sdp determined not to join the government , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s flag ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push ahead with european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s ’s role in europe for years to come . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push ahead for european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed .
last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable escape from dictatorship . elimination of fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that signaled a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to re-assert military control . it would take six long years under rapacious military rule before nigeria received another chance at democracy . the timing could not have been worse . after the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler , general sri lankan abacha – who suddenly dropped dead – the military sullenly agreed to another national election .
rather than sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . these barriers are especially high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . to reduce maternal mortality , for example , little is done to provide antenatal attention , safe delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made on disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stake in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access or control , natural resources . to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must be underpinned by a robust defense policy . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that modernizing armed forces intrinsically to national development . it thus emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry .
a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies . moreover , the transnational connectivity in the information industry is close , as western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time services . but the real promise to the us for china and india lies . big expatriate communities in the us , 2.4 million chinese , and 1.7 million indians have increased interest in their home countries among other americans . yao ming , the chinese star of the national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become another chinese michael jordan , and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and died in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation can win west kaczyński in his subjugation of ukraine and the theft of crimea . his hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the cold war will cause them to forget their allies ’ security interests , a classic divide-and-rule strategy , have served chile . the delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , has instead merely whetted putin ’s appetite . europe can not afford to be taken in . ukraine can not afford to be taken in .
to this end , it is critical to reframe the constitution in order to incorporate regional interests and recognize that the uk is a supranational state . where possible , regional funding and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of agriculture , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional bodies such as the scottish parliament , welsh , and northern irish assemblies , municipal mayors , and local governments . such radical change – and , to match the scale of the crisis – must be radical – will require a nationwide discussion that could be conducted through the people ’s constitutional convention . that convention should start by examining brexit ’s impact in the regions . for example , we should ask whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to madrid , or if some powers and financing should instead be decentralized across regions and peoples .
the prospect of eu membership has been the most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies . as a result , america no longer has a strong position to set the world ’s agenda . but it can set an example , both within and outside its own borders . the eu can not possibly take the place of the us as the world ’s leader . while the majority of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example .
like his old soviet masters , he conflates athletic glory with military glory . that is why he personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; the unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well on his mind , considering that russia won the most medals . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics that form the core of the doping scandal . ) this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for military glory . to be sure , putin views the olympics – and , specifically , the medals ’ medals .
chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to participate in international sanctions is often attributed to their belief in judging actions by whether or not they work . but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly hard time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly its historic friend and ally . china ’s rise is one of the most studied developments of our time . perhaps the true pragmatism on display in north korea ’s case is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and internal fixation . it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been far more impressive than it was when any north korean rocket .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , producing a number of opposing explanations . some attribute the fall largely to declining global growth expectations . still others suspect a tacit deal between saudi arabia and the united states targeted , among other things , by weakening political rivals such as russia and iran . others focus on expanding america ’s oil and gas production . regardless of the reason for the price drop – probably to be found in some combination of these factors – the consequences are the same .
at about $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain high , even as a soft global economy means that world demand is low . even with improved security , it will take five years to get iraqi oil fully on stream . with the american economy now recovering strongly , the price of oil should stay high or even rise further in the foreseeable future . the global oil situation is especially interesting at the moment . the previously fashionable view that an american seizure of iraqi oil resources would break opec and send the price of oil plummeting has turned out to be nonsense .
reversal of that process will likely not occur until the three key components of a banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are within a tangible reach . after all , if markets truly believed that the ecb would refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would run out of participating countries at the first sign that conditionality is not met . but omts also fit well with a large body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing the fire rather than negotiating over who owns the water and what its cost should be . as with its predecessor , the us securities markets program , the omt program is both legally and democratically dubious : it violates the spirit but not the letter ; it is not the letter ; it is not the european treaty ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has no precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to a political backlash – that will witness german press ’s visceral reaction to ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement .
for starters , bipartisan premium support proposals , with seniors receiving subsidies to purchase private health insurance , should be implemented . premium support can dramatically reduce medicare spending , because it establishes a framework for more efficient benefit spending , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage . so far , the only american presidential candidate to recognize the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing social-security and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burdens on future generations . so far , the only american presidential candidate to recognize the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing social-security and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised constructive reform ideas .
silvio berlusconi , who becomes president of the european union on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets have paid off big . so his fortune started in real-estate development . in the 1960 's , he was the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city where people walked to work , would become a modern metropolis surrounded by american-style suburbs . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that the italian state 's monopoly of television would not survive and jump-started what became italy 's main privately owned media group . but you do n't win in tv and the property business without the right political connections .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for public spending , have long been a key feature of chinese economic policy . but , with funding costs for companies trending up , this is finally beginning to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , made lowering funding costs for companies , particularly small and medium-size enterprises ( small and medium-size enterprises ) , the top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in prudently managed monetary loosening , which includes freeing up more funding for lending by banks that allocate a certain share of their total loan portfolios to small and medium-size enterprises . the pboc , through its “ pledged supplementary lending ” program , has also started lending directly to banks that promise to use the money for social-housing construction .
countries with the greatest cause of concern about russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not to offer nato membership . moreover , russia today is far too weak to threaten them , as the russian army 's disastrous misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . but nato enlargement is not likely to make russian foreign policy more peaceful ever . russian democrats with enormous stakes in a peaceful future remain adamant that extending alliance membership to central europe insulate their countries from europe , strengthen russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and , by appearing to threaten russia , provide a rallying point for rebuilding russian military power . one day , russia will become stronger , and if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage the revival of an imperial foreign policy then this is a powerful argument in favor of doing so .
that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in the ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel will be able to depend only on its comparative merits in the eyes of cynical , realistic actors who judge it solely on the basis of its own national interests . israel ’s leaders seem intent on gaining time both tactically by resisting soft pressure on us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly important role . but that would presuppose a small gesture toward palestinians , whom israelis regard as being so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement seems possible . israel may be “ europe , ” ” and its main ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders must start thinking about how their country can thrive in a post-western world .
the ultimate trick , “ starve the beast , ” ” ” ” typically comes later , if and when the president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do not trump reality . the audience is now told that the loss of tax revenue and widening the budget deficit was the plan all along . this trick never works , either , of course . it can not find sufficient spending to cut ( the magic asterisk vanished up the conjurer ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s sleeve ) ; gdp acceleration is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario having vanished ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit in laffer hat ) . the performer explains that the deficit is all congress ’s fault for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the budget deficit , because “ congress can not spend the money it does n’t have . ”
in one of the darkest hours of the roman empire 's demise , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to renew a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is the european flag . for this reason , in january one of us launched the idea that , starting on march 21 , we depict the flag on our houses , factories and offices . march 21 is the first day of benedict , the patron saint of of europe . march 21 also marks the anniversary of benedict ’s death , the patron saint of our europe .
in the united states , right-wing extremists have carried out far more attacks than islamists do . this fits into a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds are immediately categorized as “ conduct terror ” acts , and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic way , while violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies are treated as an “ isolated incident . ” but there is nothing isolated in the case of such incidents . the attack in christchurch was directly inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist attacks in norway , of which i am one of fortunate survivors . according to the world terrorism index 2018 , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has been rising steadily since 2014 .
the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is a fading memory , because germany has so far generate a comparably robust strategy for reviving the eu ’s prospects and popularity . the fruit of the franco-german partnership has included the european single currency , the euro . after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , by now relocated from bonn to berlin , contented itself once again with a lower european profile . that modest and unassuming role belongs firmly in the past , even though german power has still been matched by imagination . indisputably , the 28 member countries ’ strongest and most dependable , it lacks a vision of where beleaguered europe should be headed .
while the rest of the world struggles to raise saving , china , with its saving rates above 40 % , struggles to get its people to consume more . in fact , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china must stimulate consumption . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary saving . ” china has been engaged in what might be called “ vendor finance , ” providing the money that helps to finance america ’s vast fiscal and trade deficits , allowing americans to buy more goods than they sell . but this is a curious arrangement : a relatively poor country helps to finance america ’s war on iraq , as well as a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest country , while vast needs at home imply ample room to expand both consumption and investment .
selling five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is regarded as clever marketing , but lending 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at high interest rates is being viewed as exploitative . a high salary earned by cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturers attracts no attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor appears improper , if not immoral . both activities , after all , are financed by investors ’ search for returns on their capital and motivated more by profit than compassion . but one is clearly less socially acceptable than the other . yet pmfis have succeeded in meeting a genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a fast-growing array of tasks , including some requiring complex cognitive abilities and advanced degrees . this process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse effects on both the quantity and quality of employment have raised serious concerns . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains a primary reason for the loss of manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that a possible technological displacement of workers is “ “ “ “ not even on [ the administration ’s ] radar screen . ” the consensus among economists , however , is that around 80 % of the loss in american manufacturing jobs over the last three decades was a result of labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade coming a distant second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could do no wrong with economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic , across a wide range of high-tech precision and computerization of manufacturing tradable goods . they also saw an economy that , since reconstruction began after world war ii , had vastly outlived europe ’s expected growth . the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed to be that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would proceed . and they saw an economy growing faster than the north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same absolute and relative economy-wide productivity levels .
israeli state support for expanding settlements is substantial . there are about 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods stretching beyond the pre-1967 borders of the old , divided jerusalem . amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , claims that the current palestinian-israeli war really is two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . conversely , israel is also fighting two wars : a just war to defend its right to exist , accepted in its integrity and security in the middle east , and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip , and the jewish settlements located there . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased in only a few of the 144 settlements , and over 7,000 settlers in gaza strip alone are occupying 20 % of impoverished land already suffering one of the world ’s highest population densities .
meanwhile , intra-eurozone financial fragmentation continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy suffers a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are becoming more apparent . contrary to some perceptions , europeans did not remain inactive over the past year . but they have lost touch with each other . like the aging magicians , they still try tricks that used to impress , but that fail to deliver the results – or , worse , prove counterproductive . the market ’s ’s reaction was to send spanish government bond rates even higher .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tension , maintaining a steady security equilibrium will not be easy . in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration debated how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire for chinese neighbors to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be termed “ integrate and insure against it . ” but there are levers to the eu that can help .
trump , for example , has no doubt succeeded in persuading some americans to see themselves as part of something like a white identity movement . but that identity – and the way its adherents frame their interests – could change again . the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” has always been misleading . interests and identities are dynamically formed as politicians make offers of representation and citizens respond . farage failed to bring about brexit all by himself .
the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional products and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering a wide array of health-care solutions . they will facilitate interactions across their networks to stimulate the development of innovative ecosystems . these will include not only prescription pharmaceuticals , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that support personalized medicine , as well as so-called neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ” developing and rewarding staff members who possess such skills will be an additional but welcome challenge . while the size of many r & d organizations is bound to reduce such reform , the complexities of managing management and maximizing the impact of this externalities will demand new skills and capabilities over and above those of excellent science .
economics is not the kind of science in which there could ever be one true model that works best in all contexts . so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old models with better ones , but by expanding its models ’ library , with each shedding light on a different social contingency . the point is no longer “ reaching the consensus about which model is right , ” as romer puts it , but rather by figuring out which model applies best in a given setting . and doing that will always remain a craft rather than a science , especially when choices must be made in real time . the social world differs from the physical world because it is man-made , and hence almost infinitely malleable .
today , the farm sector accounts for just one-third of china ’s total employment , compared to one-half in india . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market centered on the easing of outdated and complicated employment laws . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations are discouraging indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that the indian government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . equally important , indian workers – especially young people – need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously . legal protections for workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those in most developed countries , as well as in china , with mandated requirements that increase as the number of employees increases .
equally important , the policy also extends the availability of chinese finance , credits , and insurance to investors . brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted a program of investment partnerships ” ” ” to coordinate investment in its finance and transportation infrastructure sectors . the new policy explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local firms in sectors like logistics , electricity , and information systems , and it encourages interaction among business , community , and government leaders . taken together , this holistic approach is something new to china . despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments in the region appear keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with its own changes .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given accelerated growth in china ’s service sector – one of the key building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing . eventually , of course , gdp composition will provide a acid test of whether china has succeeded . it is far more important for now to examine trends in potential determinants of chinese consumption . it is far too early to expect meaningful shifts in major sources of aggregate demand . but the key word here is , after all , “ eventually . ”
to be sure , the us presidency grants trump considerable power to shape trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility that he will pursue protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based american support for a return to closed borders . europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the opposite direction . many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a job threat ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers have shown little appetite for more protectionism . european multinationals also have large stakes in the chinese economy , and eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets are now almost double those of the us .
at the time he took the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , the aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin , to the tune of $ 19 million . manafort also offered to brief deripaska about what was going on in the trump campaign . deripaska , who is under american sanctions , previously maintained a $ 10 million annual deal with manafort . after he took the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based worker , “ how do we use [ this ] to get whole ? ” like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal gently with people who displease him .
kyiv – since june kyiv , i have watched the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . but , as someone who has led a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism , because regime change is only the first step in establishing a democracy backed by the rule of law . indeed , as my country , ukraine , is now demonstrating after revolutionary euphoria fades and normality returns , democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . ukraine ’s first ’s lesson to the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not make democracy . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully .
that is the argument behind the world ’s largest project of biometrics , a multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and faces ) affecting more than one billion indians . the protection against theft is obvious : what use is a phone , a car , or a ticket that will work only for its legitimate owner ? above all , biometrics can protect against the theft of our identities on its own . increasingly , we use our fingerprints , or our face to unlock our smartphones , pay for our purchases , and board airplanes . nandan nilekani , the chairman of infosys , who has left his job to create the system , known as the aadhaar , the credits it is saving india ’s government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicating and false identities in government beneficiary lists .
pittsburgh – almost six months ago , at a moment of great alarm about the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for a historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped to calm nerves around the world . many of the problems that spurred the london summit remain real . the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of an economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world for a long time to come . anxiety levels may have come down , board rooms , and stock markets , but the daily drama for survival continues .
were we observing the look of someone holding intimate knowledge of the catastrophes ? were we observing the look of someone with intimate knowledge of the catastrophes ? or was she just the party ’s hottest girl – the one avid adolescent in charge of france , then held on tightly ? roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of this process , and speaks of forces that might be at odds with the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first is the sovereign people , who poured into the streets of every big city in the country with the knowledge that , in terms of total votes , it is they , not trump , who won the election .
and it ’s not as though congressional republicans think that they owe enough to the simpson for him to swing a single vote in either the chamber of the legislature . perhaps the simpson has had a change of heart , as he did and does . perhaps he has traveled his own road to damascus , come face-to-face with what he has done , repented , and wanted to repair some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects he has inflicted . obama officials have reassured me that simpson has had a change of heart ; that he is a smart person with a sophisticated understanding of issues ; that he can sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( while unable to sway actual legislators ) ; and that he is a genuine asset on the commission ’s substantive work . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important high-trust positions and acclaiming them as bipartisan statesmen grant the next generation really lousy incentives .
what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average number of live births per woman over her lifetime . the oecd average is at about 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , produce less than 1.4 children per woman . in the long run , a population is said to be stable if the tfr is at a replacement rate that is slightly above 2.3 for the world as a whole and somewhat lower , at 2.1 , for the developed world , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most developed countries now stands well below replacement levels . nonetheless , the largest tfr declines in recent years have occurred in developing countries .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad for business , there are actually three important channels through which regulation can benefit an economy . one is the market-creating and market-growing role illustrated by the standard of gsm . the global reach of regulation implied enormous economies of scale in the manufacture of handsets and network hardware , so that prices fell rapidly , and interoperability between networks and across countries were far easier to achieve . many regulations play this standard-setting role . by 2004 , more than one billion subscribers had to gsm services worldwide .
laguna beach – when i consider the prospects of the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by what the world collectively places a huge bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth , a avoidance of policy mistakes , and prevention of market accidents . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain , and the bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of the bet – more inclusive global growth , the deflation of continued economic recovery in the united states , with the growth rate of 3 % this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also predicts that china ’s annual gdp growth will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , enabling the risks posed by pockets of excessive shadow-banking leverage to rebound gradually , even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to shift from exports and public capital expenditure toward domestic consumption and private investment . another , more uncertain assumption underpinning the bet on more inclusive growth is that the eurozone and japan will be able to escape the face of low growth and avoid deflation , which , by impelling households and companies to postpone purchasing decisions , would undermine already weak economic performance .
republicans ultimately agreed with the democrats that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent attorney whose investigations of clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier ultimately led him to lewinsky . many worried that hillary clinton ’s impeachment would damage the presidency , but her primary impact on presidential power was the opposite . most americans believed that impeachment was a mistake . the two parties allowed the independent attorney statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later . clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment proceedings ended .
most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) for the brexit campaign . to be sure , establishment leaders have long struggled to save their own skins by ramping up eu criticism , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the most part , they have not lost sight of the benefits of eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s referendum , both major parties backed the “ remain ” campaign , though they have been split internally . but that merely put visions for alternate policies out of reach , while inducing voters to direct their opposition against the eu itself .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging aids player , ” is now in an economic and political crisis , as is south africa . weakening developing-economy incomes further is a global demand slowdown and commodities crash , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , for much of the developing world . to cap it all off , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by major economies are fueling instability . these challenges are being compounded for developing countries by new financial regulations in advanced countries that are hampering investment and finance flows to the developing world .
though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear breach , and the government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about the future . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is far smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern . for its part , iran seems relatively stable , at least in comparison to its neighbors . in the event of a regime collapse , a distinct possibility would be difficult to prevent the diversion of its assets or even the use of its weapons . pakistan has a large nuclear weapons program , and faces an expansionist jihadi rebellion , which previously attacked military bases suspected of housing nuclear assets .
those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial actions – say , using access to the dollar clearing systems as a foreign-policy tool – would be countered by coordinated action . for the uk , in particular , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with american foreign policy in ways that some devotees of the us “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . but this was not a us-iran deal ; it was negotiated by six leading powers and endorsed by the united nations . as for climate change , the election of a man who purports to believe that global warming is the chinese hoax created to damage american entrepreneurship is obviously bad news . but the global momentum toward tackling climate change can and must be sustained .
after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian sunni hardliners , with little interest in de-escalating regional conflicts . this would make a resurgence of reform-oriented leadership in iran exceedingly difficult . to be sure , the most likely scenario is a combination of both dynamics . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments hew more closely on a reform-oriented path , it should be clear to all that the diplomatic work with regard to iran is far from complete . ironically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by conservatives and hardliners , actually fits in the region better than the current one .
in the aftermath of lehman brothers ’ collapse in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian banks and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb npls has been deemed useless . ten years later , italy is no longer that imagined land for prosperous banks and happy savers . the prolonged recession and economic malaise have dented individual savings , while banks no longer have the resources to provide peace to the many retail investors whose confidence has been severely eroded . the implicit pact between banks and savers broke out at the end of 2015 , when four troubled local banks were bailed out and shareholders took the hit .
many poles are wary of the church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy , and are allergic to its aggressive presence in politics . so the man talking too much about the future rode into power saddled on the votes of the past . it is a sad paradox , indeed , that for many ex-communists in opposing the church pose as defenders of the liberal democratic values they once persecuted with unremitting zeal . this link , after all , will dog kwasniewski ’s presidency . kwasniewski ’s strategy of seduction has appealed to large numbers of the young and the middle class , but most of all to peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s growing economy .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist smallholders , but the obstacles remain . if donor governments really want results , they should take the money out of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies , and pool it in one or two places , the most logical being the world bank in washington , and the international agricultural development fund ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these agencies would then account for a few billion dollars . perhaps the main risk is that “ aid bureaucracies ” now travel over one another to try their hands at $ 20 billion so that much of it gets taken from meetings , expert consultations , over-heads , reporting , and further meetings . “ partnership unions ” of donors can become an expensive end in itself , only delaying real action .
after all , the brics economies are likely to be the single most important source of future global growth . currently , the brics countries represent a loose , informal bloc . they constitute more than one-quarter of the earth ’s landmass , well over 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and nearly half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . indeed , the brics may also be dubbed the r-5 , after its members ’ currencies , the real , ruble , rupee , renminbi , and rand . at the new delhi summit , brics leaders discuss creating common institutions , particularly a common development bank that can help mobilize savings among countries .
as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear competition for jobs – a sentiment fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear competition for jobs , sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . a key difference in the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters despite rapid economic growth ( more than 3 % annually , the highest rate in the eu ) . between now and may , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling a rise in real incomes . as it stands , britons , like their european counterparts , feel overtaxed to spook public services that are steadily declining , and are angry that their incomes have been declining for the last five years .
others , like the united states , have not , and so the unemployment rate remains at around 10 % . it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long and variable lags . ” thus , policies aimed at boosting employment by the end of , say , this calendar year needed to enter into full effects over a year ago . this is not to say that the obama administration has made no effort to boost employment . indeed , some countries – china , for example , have implemented such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits .
imposing trade defense against such goods , even if legally warranted , is likely to create problems for globalized european companies . many argue that such problems are the price to pay for ensuring that companies do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies . for more advanced goods , the eu value-added ( as long as the intangible part of the production process is in europe ) is rather high . but , even if action worked as intended , most trade defenses are probably not directed against anti-competitive business practices . sectors with higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example , have much higher r & d costs than the shoe sector , so manufacturing these goods on the assembly line in a low-cost country are probably not very costly when compared to r & d and other intangible costs .
firms are in a far better position than consumers to assess their product ’s safety ; we all benefit from knowing that our legal system has provided corporations with incentives to pay attention to the safety of what they produce . similarly , environmental laws are making firms liable for their toxic wastes , and many countries , including the u.s. , have enshrined the principle that " polluters pay , " that companies must pay for the harm they cause . motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult . america ’s legal system makes sure that firms that produce a defective , and particularly an unsafe product are held to account for the consequences . after all , corporations have no conscience ; it is only the conscience of those running the corporation , and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to profits .
the case for acting on a massive scale to fight climate change has been made in europe , and even in china . is it because those who oppose such discussions reject climate-change science ? or do they deny the science because accepting it will legitimize an economically activist state ? why have such a mission been made so little discussed . we need not look far for such a mission .
the compromise reached at nice four years ago matters because it contains , among other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and the power sharing among eu institutions , which must be firmly in place before the union can admit new members . enlargement is the most important item on the agenda of europe . well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that seek to slither around and through some practical problems , while postponing others . once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no to the treaty of nice . enlargement is the most important item on the european agenda .
at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies began to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose asian poverty ’s causes and explain why its poverty had appeared ineradicable . simultaneous to this , a strong consensus developed among economists and policymakers that favored import-substitution policies then pursued by countries like india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after beggaring their adherents , these policies are now thoroughly discredited . the key point here is not just that economists got so much wrong , but that almost nobody got things right . with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that emerged over the last half-century were little understood and seldom ( if ever ) forecast by economists .
but wade postponed a legislative election , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and later , by presidential decree until june 2007 . a month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who registered had received their voting cards . two weeks ago , there were almost daily debates about the possibility that the presidential election will be postponed indefinitely . on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” demonstration by opposition parties brutally repressed the police and three presidential candidates were arrested on june 28 . a presidential election now appears to be underway , but will it be fair ?
princeton , cnn – the intersection of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s president larry summers touched off one explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively suggested a genetic explanation for the difficulty that his university has in recruiting female professors in math and physics . ( he failed to suggest that men are on average more talented in these fields than women , but that there is some reason to be believing that men are more likely than women to be found at both the top and the bottom of the spectrum of abilities across these fields – and harvard , of course , only appoints people at the extremes at the extremes of the extremes . now one of our most eminent scientists blundered far more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results . in october , james watson , sharing the 1962 nobel prize for his description of dna structure , was in london to promote his memoir , avoid dull people , and other lessons from life in science .
mugabe ’s first visit to china in 1980 , just six months after independence ; he made 13 more so during his tenure ; and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials have been even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s rule . kenyan presidents , by contrast , traveled to china just six times during the same period , most recently in may 2017 . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . state visits in the other direction have been more uneven . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . but , for young refugees , the crisis can also be tracked by an irreversible metric : the passage of time . school-age children form a large share of the world ’s displaced population . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , roughly half are under the age of 18 , which means that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childbearing , could lose out on a future as well . at the end of 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees were experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : far from their homes for more than five years , and no “ immediate prospects ” ” of return .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stem the stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done more to stop the early 2000 ’s housing bubble . but how serious are these policy-making political crimes to which greenspan now pleads guilty ? in my view , they are misdemeanors . against them , one must set what former us treasury secretary larry summers refers to as greenspan ’s “ gold glove ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during the fed ’s years . here greenspan holds his ground , and he leads not to blame .
those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christians and arab democrats , and , of course , striving for a just peace between israelis and palestinians . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing more than a sinister caricature of anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . and it is better to know that history , if we wish to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes . it is a campaign whose instigators have no ambition other than to discriminate against , de-legitimize , and vilify israel that in their mind never stopped registering its yellow star . to activists of good faith that may have been engaged in duplicating the movement ’s duplicitous representations , i would say only that there are too many lofty causes in the need of assistance to allow oneself to be enlisted in a dubious world .
more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a way to trick complex adult cells in the mice into a regressing to their immature state , forming stem cells . indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells are developed by the reprogramming dna and cells , without altering their genetic structure . in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that almost any cell in the body contains the complete dna code enabled him to create a tadpole by cloning an adult frog . prior to this , stem cells – which can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for both lost or damaged tissues – could be taken only from early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy . it is too soon to discount genetics , however , because the science of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms for turning genes on and off , thereby altering how a cell develops without altering the genetic code – is gaining traction .
the financial costs of patrolling its waters and the rescuing of those adrift are exorbitant . the crisis in the mediterranean can not be managed in piecemeal ways . the financial costs of patrolling its waters and rescuing those adrift are exorbitant . but we need not wait until the root causes of displacement – state failure and civil war – are addressed . claims could be prioritized and processed regularly , and refugees could enter europe healthy and ready to work or study .
that is roughly the same gap that existed between the american and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 , four economies that are also among the 13 successful economies studied by the us growth commission . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s average annual growth rate soared to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 stood at $ 6,725 in 1990 , accounting for 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between the four brazil and the us enabled brazil to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % , -9.2 % , for 20 years , china ’s ’s annual growth potential should account for a similar 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address various structural problems , and develop its economy according to its comparative
unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknown , un-championed , and unfulfilled . that neglect is , in fact , a human tragedy , and it is not a human tragedy . the signatories have agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and their habitats , and using biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went further , committing to “ a significant reduction in the current rate of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . for a very low cash outlay – and perhaps none at all on balance – we could conserve nature , and thus protect the basis of our own lives and livelihoods .
like john kerry , the chairman of the american senate ’s foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process is not a one way street ” in which the onus is put exclusively on israel . it is because netanyahu is driven by almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that he may be amenable to a fundamental change in his position on palestine , provided obama makes a visible headway in his drive to stop iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , he is the neutralization of that an existential threat that will pave the way for the creation of a palestinian state . netanyahu also knows that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . it remains to be seen if abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state operatives in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , respond the way obama expects .
we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january . just as imemo economists predicted , most ( 66 % ) of those reacting to this question in moscow thought that it was unfair . but there was a surprise : new york yielded practically identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . so we decided last year to determine whether the same similarities between moscow and new york persists today , or whether , given a revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets have become more negative . we administered the identical questionnaire in both cities in 2015 .
in the latter version of the eurozone , there is differential credit risk and , ultimately , bank runs , de-euroization and default : the common currency is at odds with member states ’ needs . and how often are we to hear about the sovereign restructurings of local-currency debt ? the prognoses of each case are starkly different . like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out the southern “ emerging ” emerging ” economies . in the former version , interest rates converge , and default risk is deflation , because , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the us , the euro becomes a “ local currency . ”
in a 5-4 majority , a court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” and thus that any limits on the amount of money corporations can spend on political campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of expression . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s county and circuit courts were filled fell to its lowest point in 50 years . that majority may erode democratic checks , such as limits on campaign-finance , which were dealt a devastating blow by citizens ’ 2010 decision . thus , republicans ’ obstructionism in the senate has put other levels of the federal judiciary at risk . thus , republicans have a good chance of creating a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court that may last for decades , especially if they win the presidency again in 2020 .
lopez obrador and his supporters can be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are not likely to derail his government . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential of a left-wing leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are clearly less vulnerable to the type of populist rule that we ’ve seen in venezuela and bolivia . calderon ’s challenge will not be easy , but it will not be easy .
next year will be crucial , for it will mark the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . there is still time to respond – by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies , but that time is limited and the clock is ticking . no one wants the eu to fail , owing to its citizens ’ disaffection . it is here that political leaders should devote their efforts . a new german government , the european parliament elections , and , at the end of the year , a new european commission will be crucial .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambitions the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as economic power or , in earlier decades , cheered on the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today , we asians are witnessing , on an almost daily basis , the fierce political onslaught on tools and policies that helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues . in sri lanka , where i am premier , the challenge is to find a way to accelerate our already steady economic growth .
widely unnoticed , iraqi sunni and shia centralists have managed in the last few months to form a united parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind . more than 100 followers of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform calls for a central government administration of iraq ’s natural resources and deferral to a looming referendum to settle the city of kirkuk . intra-government change is also noteworthy . here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in .
yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state . so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not policy hopeless ; they are simply waiting for a genuine leader . the french , yes , are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state . the french still expect more things from their government than from an integrated europe or a boundless world . the french still expect more things from their government than from an integrated europe or a boundless world .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambition running at an all-time low . the warsaw talks are a staging post on a route to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will strive to forge an agreement that prevents dangerous climate change , defined as global warming of more than two degrees celsius . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in poverty due to more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . but it does not have to be this way : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . fundamental carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem .
in a march 2015 letter to the g-20 , a team of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . “ each year , we are already consuming about one-and-a-half-planet worth of resources , ” ” ” ” the authors explained . “ infrastructure choices need to be made to alleviate rather than exacerbate this situation . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) cautions that “ infrastructure developments and long-lived products that lock societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive pathways can be difficult or very costly to change . ” and , indeed , the g-20 has placed few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria into the “ wish list ” ” ” ” mega-projects that each member country submit to its summit in turkey in november .
the fed , for example , has pledged to keep interest rates low , at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that arguably lowered long-term borrowing costs . that pledge alone has stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically reduced interest-rate spreads for the struggling eurozone countries . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance on short-term interest rates . while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be determined without additional data , there are plenty of arguments in his favor . perhaps the most telling example of the central bank , using forward guidance effectively , was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely , efforts to tighten sanctions still further . but iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of its main interlocutor in the talks on its nuclear program ; the sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) ; and the restoration of iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten the lines of communications and close to the 444-day chapter of 1979-1981 . this would not be an easy process , and could well meet considerable iranian resistance . yet , just as the us has adopted a “ bomb and talk ” approach to the serbs during the bosnian war dénouement , america must be willing to “ sanction and talk ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater space for an eventual diplomatic strategy . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran and putting its diplomats on the ground .
to keen observers , the ipl represented more than the sports league ; it signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india . other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout a cricketing world . anyone watching the ipl , however , may be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of the game , is actually an american game deliberately rediscovered by indians . at the ipl glitz , glamour , and excess lay an antidote to a hidebound statist mentality that produced economic stagnation in india in the past . here was a venture that opened new vistas for companies and fired young people ’s imaginations to emulate entrepreneurial energies shown by owners , promoters , players , and fans .
at the whim of the state , for example , they can be exonerated from pay taxes or have their posts and work made unchallengeable by law . this superficiality results from the fact that , while communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” notion , modernity in romania goes only a skin deep . for here is a state where groups , classes , even individuals struggle for privileges that are granted , not according to talent and work , but rather according to the status of a group in which one belongs . at the 20th century ’s close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) appears to be more like a “ neo-feudal ” state than a modern society . state banks , the nation state , sanctioned public societies ( trade unions , for example ) , large state enterprises , act little differently in romania today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe .
but a fundamental problem is that , until now , at every historical juncture , the palestinians have refused to accept a compromise and consequently failed nation-building . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority , established under yasir arafat , became another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate palestinian refugees ’ suffering . it was this failure that brought hamas to power . in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , which called for the establishments of two british palestinian states . on the other hand , diplomatic means can bring about the release of an israeli soldier , placing a halt to the firing of qassam rockets from gaza into israel , a daily occurrence that challenged the new israeli government ’s credibility under prime minister ehud olmert .
in their mind , the united states ’ hard power is more important than its soft power , and its vision of an america “ bound to lead ” is largely unchanged . otherwise , and for very different reasons , most asian elites are awaiting the growing possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in asia , indonesia may be looking “ european ” in its obama craze ; but it essentially constitutes a anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing . japanese elites , for them , tend to favor continuity over change .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump were hurling kindergarten insults at each other – “ rocket man is on a suicide mission , ” ” ” trump declared trump of kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” ” ” kim ’s retorted , while threatening to cut east asia to a post-atomic wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are to meet by may . but optimism about this turn of events must be tempered by a cautious realism . north korea is the nuclear issue from hell , and it is the only way to go . kim reportedly is willing to denuclearize and anxious to talk directly to trump , who has agreed .
they tend to have proactive and assertive foreign policies and aspiring to more than middle-power status and the limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . despite its domestic problems and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement age , south africa still finds an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . such powers seek an effective and constructive regional role , and possibly a global one in some instances . south africa seeks a wider and more influential role , reinforced by its obvious standing as a regional hegemon . nepad , a new african partnership for development , an organization designed to promote decent and appropriate economic and political development across the continent , has been at the heart of that policy .
indeed , turkey never missed the opportunity to present itself as the regional broker . immediately after the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey proposed a black sea economic cooperation . it aspires to join the european union , bringing the eu within our three borders , even as we , too , aspire to join one day . this year , as the american-led effort to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement began to falter , turkey took on the job of mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the syria conflict . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgia crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward once again to assume a leadership role in the caucasus .
my fear is that the us has not seen the last of al qaeda or the taliban . indeed , throughout the region , apprehension is growing that when foreign troops leave , afghanistan will descend into civil war again , ultimately bringing the taliban back to power . the west needs to get out before the bloodletting starts again in earnest . that is why “ bringing the troops home early ” has become the prime objective of western politicians engaged in the region . as a neighboring country , india would face daunting consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , because would iran not sit idly by if sectarian strife intensified , and shia become targets of a resurgent taliban .
an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equally to all is no market economy . a market economy must rest on an economic principle of profit and loss . and governments must respond to the banks ' threats by declaring their willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ' loans to non-financial companies , as well as private customers ' current , fixed-term , and savings deposits by reforming insolvent laws . a law that applies to all other companies should apply to banks as well .
but gross capital flows are from the emerging market to the emerging market , through the big banks now implicitly backed by the state in the us and europe . from the perspective of international investors , banks that are “ too big to fail ” are perfect places to park their reserves – as long as a sovereign in question remains solvent . when a similar issued in the 1970 ’s emerged in the 1970 ’s , the so-called “ recycling of oil surpluses ” – banks in the western financial centers extended loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was not a good idea , as it led to the massive ( for now ) debt crisis of 1982 . but what will these banks do with the money ?
companies in south africa stagger from losing so many workers to aids . the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat to african development . ” but the plagues of transition are more than a health crisis ; they signify a deeper malaise . so put aside the fact that these diseases are infectious , and can be spread easily , or the idea that the fortunate bear some moral responsibility for the welfare of the poor and sick , and merely consider the economic consequences of the plagues transition . when they give way , diseases , despair , and death rush in .
erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . turkey insists that it visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , to deliver that year . but , with turkey so far failing to meet the agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorism legislation , that may not happen – an outcome that has been made even more probable by a coup attempt . that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . but , while it would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made strategic mistakes before .
nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . moreover , during his recent election campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected , he would prevent the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ controlling the entire region . ” as he well knows , settlements constitute a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state . as long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied a nation-state to their own , a conflict will ensue . we should take him at his word , and we should take it .
heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to collapse . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to collapse . but such reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretion ; more power to the board ; and a larger role for the fed in the new york fed all to allow the federal reserve system to react more rapidly and robustly in a crisis . when financial stability hung on to its balance in 1933 , reserve banks ’ failure to cooperate prevented effective action .
were the doves right , or just lucky ? pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that the monetary-policy “ doves , ” who forecast low inflation in the united states , have gotten the better of “ hawks ” arguing that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , will unleash faster price growth . the report was right but misleading , for it failed to mention why there is so little inflation in america today . neither the hawks nor the doves ( nor anyone else ) expected that . the american federal reserve board pumped out trillions of dollars of us reserves , but never have so many reserves produced so little monetary growth .
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing births have been shown to decrease newborn deaths and child death rates . moreover , cutting the birth rate , which is very high in many lmics , would help to reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs of maternal and newborn care and immunization . this is not only good for mothers ; it is not just a matter of health . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 child deaths annually . by reducing the rate of unwanted pregnancies , family-planning services also decreases the death toll from unsafe abortions .
meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . the saudis are also recoiling under a barrage of criticism from their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking the fight against its enemies . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields considerable power . as minister of defense , mohammad has continued the saudi policy of backing anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a war on pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at overwhelming humanitarian costs ) .
the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to declare an end to the longest international conflict in the us history prior to the 2020 presidential election . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to declare an end to the longest international conflict in the us history than before the 2020 us presidential election . the answer to the first question is both yes and no . at the same time , the us has achieved many of its upfront core goals .
just five months ago in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference with support from other multilateral institutions , the g20 , and the un . the ebrd aims to support training a critical mass of experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that certifications could become as respected as those held by a chartered financial analyst or member of a project management institute . emerging-market officials will earn accreditation by demonstrating the capacity to apply their knowledge practically . one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” ” ” the benchmarking index , created by the economist intelligence agency , that assesses emerging-market countries ’ capacities across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and the former soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . we had plenty of experts – some 300 from 30 countries ’ public and private sectors – that attempting to provide the answer to a simple question : “ what would it take to double private infrastructure investment in emerging markets ?
the results are mixed , at best . the obama administration staked its reputation on getting both israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on security and border . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , in total violation of international law , and minimal peacekeeping requirements detailed in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the quartet ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) . the american efforts , led by special envoy george mitchell , have made clear that israel ’s current ruling coalition is incapable of doing the minimal request for peace . palestinians respect all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , which gives lip-service to the two-state solution , has yet to the elucidate where israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s borders will .
that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt servicing in august 1982 sparked the region-wide debt crisis . it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign creditors . then contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly developed-country markets , begin withdrawing funds from other countries to conceal the losses they incurred in the economies where the crises originated . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting entire regions , or even the entire class of emerging economies . the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht , and quickly spread to other east asian countries .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming failure to contribute to economic growth . but un research has made clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest at best , not least because average funding for projects has fallen by more than two-thirds . in fact , debt is another side to the evolving dilemma . over the last decade , the joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries initiative and its expansion , the additional multilateral debt relief initiative , have made significant strides toward debt sustainability .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary election for the 2012 presidential vote , which will , alas , continue to rage in the summer , must serve as a frightening illustration of what americans and their leaders are unaware of about foreign policy . indeed , ignorance seems to be undermining strength for the candidates . debate after debate reveals the fact that neither candidate seeking to challenge president barack obama is especially concerned with the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , particularly those not including us troops . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by making a few useful points in dealing with china , punctuated by a brief display of his own mastery of mandarin , some other candidates responded with derision . to have even known a chinese perspective appears to have been disqualifying for huntsman , who soon ends his candidacy .
i helped launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for the most at-risk and vulnerable children . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations by mobile telecommunications and creating community security groups consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and the young alike to promote safe education zones . a fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from business , the nigerian government , and international donors , as well as a multi-donor trust fund , to be established at the un . the first set of schools has now received funding , with the first cohort of the most at-risk girls relocated to government schools in safer regions of the country .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) , they must address more than future greenhouse-gas targets . they must also address the harm to the people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued robust growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . a one-year cut of the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just over 1 % in january , down from its 4 % increase in the previous quarter . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not materialize . the rise in food and energy prices outpaced gains in nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while the continued fall in home prices drove down wealth for most households .
in the case of education , the report calls on employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ” for example , it highlights miami dade university ’s “ programs in animation and game development , ” working with companies like pixar animation studios and google . likewise , toyota “ built its own high-tech technician ” program to provide a pathway to students seeking careers at the company . instead , we are left with conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people for the algorithmic employment – that is , using big data to match people with jobs that they will need to remain consumers . instead , we are told that future labor-market participants should be equipped with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help them leap from one automated workplace to another .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year ’s united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of those facing hunger is actually increasing , as is the number of malaria cases . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the consequences of climate change are emerging far more rapidly than anticipated .
as a result of the program , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such plans consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas such as mobility , waste management , and economic development . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to its economy ’s growth . the basque country has established a program called local agenda 21 , designed to support the creation of local sustainability plans across the region . these local plans are now driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge sharing among the municipalities that are setting the foundation for further progress . meanwhile , south australia has developed australia ’s most supportive regulatory framework for renewables investment in australia , enabling increased renewables ’ share of power generation , from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility , allowing their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in the 1930s , countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas the most were those with the least ability to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that remained on the gold standard . but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they did little to arrest the downward spiral of output and prices . they were doing nothing to stabilize the rickety banking systems . in dire efforts to do something – to defend their economies – they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent the majority of palestinians , nor to govern through democratic means . today , the clique surrounding palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deceit that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement has meant for the palestinians . a hostage of an impossible coalition and a settlement movement by france ’s fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leadership is seriously compromised . his palestinian counterparts hardly seem to be in any better shape .
the result is a vicious circle in which government finds it increasingly difficult to do what it is needed . this has fueled a growing sense of hopelessness – particularly among men , manifested in rising non-labor-force participation , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . but government intervention is critical to tackling the problems facing developed-country workers today , which markets can not address alone . countries experiencing high and rising economic inequality often face political instability and policy dysfunction . as policymaking becomes erratic , loses credibility , and becomes choked by gridlock , growth suffers , and the chance to achieve a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london were “ jewish ” while the arsenal was “ iran . ” vestiges of these markings remain : amsterdam of amsterdam is still taunted by provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ” and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , continue to divide religious affiliation , celtic being catholic and rangers protestant . but a common race or religion is not essential . the tribe can be a club , clan or nation .
in a new report to be initiated at the imf-world bank spring meetings , save the children documents a glaring gap between health risks that are heavily skewed toward the poorest children and the benefits of public spending are often skewed in favor of better-off households . that flies in the face of the central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest away from targets would benefit from the fastest progress . in the language of the agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ” the world bank could help to improve accountability for fulfilling that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to oversee and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are narrowed . it is also about spending more equitably , but it is also about to pay .
my trip occurred in april 2002 , a somewhat optimistic time . my personal memories of north korea , now close to ten years old , are of a poor and depressed country . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices have tripled , while consumption of electricity is down two-thirds since two decades ago . pyongyang , the capital , was dark and deserted , illuminated by the cavalcade taking us from official housing to the opera house , only to return to darkness behind us . kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor as entering the opera house that today marks public mourning of his death .
the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to be fully and equal members of society is to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . but there are other gender targets to consider . female employment rose , and women aged 15-21 were 5-6 % less likely to marry or give birth over this period . such large-scale change is not easy to achieve , but if girls can stay in school longer , and the decent job opportunities available to them after they graduate , they are likely to marry and bear children later . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over a period of three years .
vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered the north ’s furious response : “ we do n’t hide our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” choe son hui , vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington stuck to “ illegal and outrageous ” belligerence . the north was uninterested in a dialogue aimed at the coerced ’s unilateral nuclear abandonment . the “ world knows too well that our country is neither libya nor iraq , which has met miserable fates . ” although trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that , unless north korea runs a deal , it will actually meet with libya ’s fate .
with the us current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is rising fast . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner or later have to end . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , about a third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing it . the result was a precipitous fall in the value of the dollar , which depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . after almost 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated only by a brief slowdown in 2000-2001 – the united states accumulated massive stocks of foreign liabilities , equivalent to 25 % of its gdp .
princeton – the united states has moved from the high point of the presidential election to the low point of a single short week of a political sex scandal . for many non-americans , the election brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the election and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of a bigger whole : an america that lives up to its promises . the election reminded many americans that the american people are a country committed to and capable of progress – moving forward toward an ideal vision . for many americans , the election demonstrated what is best about a country , if only to be followed by the sadly familiar rose-heroes process off their pedestals .
the first casualty would be whatever little scope remains for international policy coordination . the second would be the world ’s international monetary system . in fact , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s establishment was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit objective of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this is why the swiss move comes as a surprise . it is true that the franc has appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 .
add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is clear why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany . the second commonly cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength . the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at a record low , with gdp having grown by almost 10 % since 2013 . the call by björn höcke , the afd ’s state party ( csu ) , for an “ 180-degree turn ” for the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the crimes of the nazi era , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to the “ disposing of ” germany ’s integration minister of turkish descent “ in anatolia , ” ” ” repelled voters . likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in most western germany .
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing punishment by individuals and online media for spreading so-called fake news and information that “ disrespects ” the state . china and turkey – both the olympic-level jailers of journalists – have ramped up their repression in recent years . us president donald trump is trying to move in the same direction . enormous fines have been put on autonomous publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . his constant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies of the people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred label for news media : lügenpresse ( lying press ) .
without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa struggles at subsistence levels . bush might think that america is doing much to help overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minimal . blair ’s africa commission , like the un millennium project , has found that africa needs around $ 50 billion per year in aid aid by 2010 . america ’s fair share of the total is around $ 15 billion per year . yet official u.s. aid to africa amounts to just $ 3 billion per year , and much of it covers the salaries of american counseling rather than investments in africa ’s needs .
how the world responds to north korea is likely to influence the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . north korea is now the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the un security council ’s five permanent members , israel , india , and pakistan . maintaining peace in a world in which literally scores of fingers are on nuclear triggers will be far more difficult — and the consequences of failure far more destructive . the danger is that we may fast be approaching a tipping point . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) in un security council resolution 1718 condemning the test , demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency , and imposes a host of military , political , and economic sanctions .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be chair of the us national trade council – a new white house policy store to be set on par with the us national security council and the national economic council . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks in china . industrialist wilbur ross , business secretary-designate , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals . titles like his two most recent books , the death of china ( 2011 ) and the crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) , speak volumes of his tabloid-level biases . ross and navarro have also been co-authors of an economic-policy position paper , published on trump ’s campaign web sites that have stretched any semblance of credibility .
but , because policymakers continually threatened to end qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to sustained stimulus . thus , the euro-dollar exchange rate barely moved ; in fact , the euro appreciated against the basket of major currencies . the ecb then declared victory , withdrawing qe just as the eurozone economy was slowing down . the clash of interests among eurozone member states is straightforward . eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy decisions .
experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works well . for centuries , western law arrived with colonial rulers . even after europe ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster development in post-colonial countries . in many cases , however , such imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced , or upheld only in form , not substance . american antitrust legislation , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , led to just six criminal prosecutions in thirty years .
this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective therapies . but other firms have been accused of having more interest in developing a “ biobank ” ” ” ” samples and data than in genetic testing . drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase the biobanks on which they can test their products for patient differential responses under their genetic make-up . there is certainly nothing wrong with that , but it does seem odd that customers are effectively paying a firm for the privilege of donating their dna to its database . as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and community writes , “ just as newspapers ’ traditional business model is getting revenues not from readers but from advertisers ; personal genomics companies are seeing potential profits not from consumers themselves but from compiled databases – probably in the form of selling access .
even with german-level interest rates , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp , still quite large , and far from today ’s deficit . and , with the face value of debt unchanged , the psychological drag on expectations and investment may linger . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to reject greek bonds as collateral . the question is whether a change in the coupons , possibly coupled with extensions of maturities , would be enough to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . european banks holding greek government debt could keep pretending that it is worth its full value .
the combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it more difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . venezuela is a case in point . in this context , “ neoliberal ” reforms , such as the rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund , have left economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . excessive fiscal and monetary expansion made these economies volatile . current-account deficits had to grow , resulting in frequent foreign-exchange crises .
interestingly , many of the purveyors of pornography initially thought that better quality videos made their product more desirable . nonetheless , high values of production seem to have in fact less popular . so a “ casual ” productive style of production was adopted , similar to the design of worn and ripped jeans . in fact , portugal is so specifically tuned to the tastes of consumers that shifts can indicate changes in a society almost instantly . movies produced for consumers ’ sexual gratification are revealing cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness .
former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done – and still do . but he never aspired to lead a country , and he has not even been willing to do so . neither clown nor the tycoon is well suited to being a democratic leader . the question , then , is which worse remains to be seen . clowns have always played a role in politics .
so , if they are to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , they will need to come with bold solutions . during a previous urban-based dynamism , in the early sixteenth-century affluent merchant families built low-rent homes that were then allocated to the poor . one such project , the fuggerei complex at augsburg , germany , still provides low-rent social housing to this day . eventually , towns and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation will provoke counter-movement . if they price out or otherwise exclude those who earn less , they will have sacrificed the openness that made them attractive in the first place .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the start of the twentieth century , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , exiled themselves from the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the proponents of the french algeria that he ultimately failed to comprehend them . nor did pierre mendès france in the 1950s hesitate to tell the communists that he did not want their votes in support of his government . for what will be required to hold territory that the republic almost lost to the fn is the political courage of a sort that stands in short supply . france must now recall these great moments in its republican tradition , and hold them up as a model for today ’s leaders .
and we know that those landings created a unique bond between our continents . but , after the cold war , many predicted that its institutional embodiment , the north atlantic treaty organization , would fade away . it did not , because us bonds are based not just on common threats , but on shared ideals . it could no longer fade away than our desire for liberty could wane . that bond remains vital to preserving our values and our security .
the chinese have been so smart in so many areas . they have devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . china does not itself no favors by remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s , when discussing the issue . is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? i hope that this issue does not derail the chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to showcase the world that their country has emerged again as one of the world ’s leaders .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . sarajevo – ever since the dual disaster of 2016 – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election , there has been widespread anxieties about a “ global wave ” of populism , with hand-wringing over the follies of so-called “ direct democracy . ” in the uk , the electorate was asked to answer an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , 2016 republican party primaries were passed on to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , there have been calls to re-empower “ gatekeepers , ” which are a polite way of saying that the unflushed masses should be kept as far removed from political decision-making .
berkeley – solving the problem is not enough . indeed , you need to implement a solution – and be willing to change course if it turns out that you did not know quite as much as you had thought . that is the message of two recent books that , together , tell you everything you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what can be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things have yet to do . the first book is shifts and shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who begins by cataloguing the major shifts that set the stage for the economic disaster that continues to shape the world today . his starting point is the tremendous rise in wealth among the world ’s ’s ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and the consequent pressure on people , governments , and companies to take on increasingly unsustainable levels of debt .
a second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . rather than receiving our information directly from institutional gatekeepers , who , despite often-flawed execution , have fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , today we are acquiring it through peer-to-peer sharing . this has its benefits , but it also carries serious risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . such peer networks can elevate content based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends rather than accuracy or importance . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse no longer relies on a common set of facts .
robert putnam , america 's leading scholar ’s declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is a central explanation of the decline of “ social capital , " the trust that binds communities together . of course , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated . americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago . time that used to be spent together within a community is now spent alone in front of the screen . moreover , heavy tv viewing has contributed to social fragmentation .
in fact , this dangerous and irresponsible action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will be a peaceful nation once it grows strong . lurking behind china ’s ambition in space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the military ’s internal circles whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . it flatly contradicts china ’s repeated assurances of leaders that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , the american people continue to enjoy a dominant space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . but , since the 1980 ’s , the us has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts .
illegality and wrongdoing were artfully cloaked as an incontrovertible , science-tested natural laws , " fittest survival . " every time a new , powerful scientific formulation seems , it must navigate an era of abusive application . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything is said to reside within our genes . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything is said to reside within our genes . distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny inscribed on the molecule of dna , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir , asserting that human beings are anything but " programmed " entities .
around its picturesque squares , every cobblestone , and ornamental façade have borne quiet witness to the bloodletting that has accompanied the empires ’ rise and fall . at a time when russia and ukraine are still very much at war , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some russians have pack the streets of lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . yet lviv is also where one can find hope for europe ’s promise . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine is strategically important to the west . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; but , for five days each summer , it hosts the alpha jazz festival , sponsored by a russian bank .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact implemented and proposed policies , but tentative read indicates limited short-term benefit at large long-term costs . obama has outsourced the details of the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to the us congress , and , no surprise , the old barons of the house of things walled off their pork and social engineering . several months later , just 4 % of the funds have been spent , and the federal government is brow-beating state governments , for example , demanding that california rescind a modest pay cut for some unionized workers , or losing $ 7 trillion in stimulus funds . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of the us administration . ) the administration is exploiting a crisis atmosphere to enact a vast agenda that re-engineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to health care , energy , and income distribution .
as europeans well know , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean . moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration hardly talks about upholding the post-war liberal international order . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , in which the us should look out only for itself . to be sure , the us claims that it is dragging its commitment to european security . sadly , in a world without common institutions protecting sovereign states from the escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of an all-out war will escalate substantially .
this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and , more recently , excess – savings ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . meanwhile , the american consumer benefited enormously from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . the old model served both sides well for three decades . china ’s growth was driven more by labor-intensive exports via technology transfers and knowledge transfers from america and other western countries . thus , america ’s employment shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting america ’s higher incomes .
a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities under president donald trump demands that europeans revisit long-held prerequisites of their collective defense . many arrived at the same conclusion before 2014 , when the alliance had little to focus on outside the mission in afghanistan . when russia annexed crimea and brought war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . then came trump , whose administration pulled the rug out of under european legs , left american leadership within a rules-based international system , and pursued a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy . this is not the first time nato seems to be on its last baby legs .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently squeezing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . meanwhile , us inflation is rising in other key economies , with rising oil prices contributing to additional inflationary pressures . by 2020 , the stimulus is running out , with a modest fiscal drag pulling growth from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . second , because the stimulus was badly timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , and inflation is rising above target . thus , the american federal reserve will continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and will likely push up short – and long-term interest rates like the american dollar .
in fact , american and british troops may have only themselves to blame . this is because a desert in the region normally has a crust , what arabs call “ desert skin , ” consisting of sand and clay particles that have been baked together , or sintered , through heat and sun . sometimes this crust is strong enough to carry a person , and sometimes not , much like the hard ice crust that develops on snow in colder climates . under the crust , sand particles are being relaxed . elevated sanders drift has been one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war .
other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly had sexual relationships with mafia figures as well . this reassessment of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s has occurred in other arenas as well – reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation of the image from charming playboy to a dangerously compulsive predator . similarly , the series “ mad men , ” ” ” with its dashing advertising executives consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs emptiness , and destructiveness of early-1960 ’s ’s male sexual prerogative . the sense of entitlement that sustained such fecklessness has been steadily eroded ever since – a process that , like so much in american culture , has played out on television . popular series like “ good wife ” shows the pain and suffering of political spouses who are expected to keep a stiff upper lip , and a ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards .
oddly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , roughly 2 % of the bank ’s total borrowing and credit exposure to just the one hedge fund ! ltcm , too , illustrates some truths about financial market crises . when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply let “ market forces ” take their course . one major truth of the last year is that financial-market problems lie not only with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks that depict uncanny skills to create trouble through an excessively risky gamble , whether in loans to emerging markets or to the likes of ltcm . the banks that lent huge sums , mostly unsecured , to ltcm , are the same ones that put in about $ 175 billion of short-term loans to the five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) , and then abruptly reversed gear , and yanked tens of billions in 1997 and 1998 .
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination receives considerable attention nowadays . of course , private-private coordination has been the essence of economics in the last 250 years . while adam smith started us on the optimistic belief that an invisible hand takes care of most coordination issues , in intervening times , economists have discovered all sorts of market failures , informational imperfections , and incentive problems that have given way to rules , regulation , and other forms of government , and societal interventions . even the world economic forum has been transformed by a “ international organization for public-private cooperation . ” a plethora of centers to study business and government relationships has been created , with researchers producing a large literature on how to design , analyze , and evaluate public-private partnerships .
for starters , a broad range of studies – from the work of the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson – find that institutions and political culture are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . the president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . while it is easy to be cynical ( some say a new program is just a pretext to cut funds from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and training is a good thing . but , while the trump administration has boosted america ’s economy ’s long-run growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger is rather gloomy . recovery from damaging trump is inflicting on us institutions and political culture in the us may take years ; if so , the economic cost could be considerable .
his main proposal so far has been a “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . but a 2 % growth rate ( a respectable pace for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and could put domestic stability at risk if jobs disappear within critical manufacturing sectors . most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth at above 2 % , without another steady rise in the price of oil . but a 2 % growth rate ( a respectable pace for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and could put domestic stability at risk if jobs disappear within its old neighborhood . putin is perplexed by the way to counter the threat posed by slow growth .
those tests , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild confidence . the several banks that passed with flying colors were soon obliged to raise new capital . but the creation of the european banking union has not been the only important change to europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s financial regulation since the crisis . the ecb , reasonably , wants all of the potential horrors to be visible before the takeover – so that it can not be blamed . with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy picture of their countries ’ banking authority no longer command , one can hope that the assessment will be more robust than the earlier stress tests carried out under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) .
the key to ensuring the future of europe ’s social-security systems , and thus its social model , is faster growth . the reason is quite simple : if there were a politically easy way to generate growth , it already would have been carried out . and , again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve . the obstacles to growth are well known and have existed for a long time without deflation . not all have succeeded ; but the successes ( germany , for example ) outweigh the failures ( see greece ) .
many state-owned firms were privatized for ten times the sums yielded in asset sales under the previous government of edvard shevardnadze . but an utter lack of transparency has allowed russian companies , and their subsidiaries registered in third countries , to snap up most of these new offerings . gazprom ’s goal is to control not only georgia ’s gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgia and armenia . russia ’s main foreign-policy tool in georgia is gazprom , the state-controlled gas monopoly . typical of a russian holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) program that succeeded in getting a major gold mine , and then half of the plant producing gold alloys .
a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of war and its lingering effects over the last decade . as always , the main victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . a renewed fighting , coming eight months after a promising peace initiative known as the “ goma agreement , ” implies more civilian deaths , and little chance of the normality that is returning to the eastern congo . yet , even at a time when fighting is a less water-intensive congo is suffering from the war ’s indirect effects . today , a quarter-million people are on the run , almost half on rebel-controlled territory and with almost no access to aid .
it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the last 75 years – were characterized by a balance of power and hegemony , respectively . of course , trade requires more than the absence of conflict . like all economic activity , it flourishes when property rights are revered ; taxation is efficient and purposeful ; letters of credit are revered ; tariffs and other barriers are removed ; and so forth . henry kissinger once said , “ peace can be achieved only through hegemony or balance of power . ” the same could perhaps be said of trade , or even of globalization itself .
externships offer educators the transparency and accountability of educators and imbue the spirit of students ’ fearlessness . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . our education system can no longer afford to wall itself off from the industrial world . when properly integrated into a student ’s education , externships can provide a competitive edge on university application essays and at campus or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from competing hordes of top-scoring test-takers . for small firms , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in per capita income of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same standard that the world bank uses to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . finding shelter in the united states on that income is so hard that $ 2-a-day poverty in the us almost surely means far worse than $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . towns and cities that lost their factories to globalization also lost their tax base and find it hard to maintain quality schools – a escape route for future generations . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills , and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class whose children find no place in this brave new world .
indeed , many online services now offer to link users with their facebook friends or linkedin connections , or to recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location . some people do n’t want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities attempting to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unfamiliar entities knowing so much about them . others might use services such as intercom to win insight into their users ’ interests – from their preferences in music to their favorite hobbes to offer a more personalized service . once a company identifies which users enjoy the most influence , well-known bloggers , for example , may offer better treatments , in the hope that they will recommend a service . web startups may even want to check their users ’ profiles on the angel investors ’ list database , viewing them as a potential source of financing .
french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged position is under attack – the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , as well as legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , while left-wing catholics find themselves crowded out by the far right . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories , talk shows , online trolling , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters , too , reject multiculturalism , and responded to their status anxieties by dismissing expertise . with france becoming less catholic and america becoming more diverse , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election , and fillon ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political ascendance , have shown , they can not even be written off .
for better or worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to stocks held by private banks . when they want to stimulate economic activity , central banks buy from private banks ’ commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . the banks then have more cash to lend . and vice versa , when the authorities want to cool down the economy . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money people will transfer from their bank account to their libra wallet , and less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy .
with america ’s invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the un , while french president jacques chirac was feeling confirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for a multipolar world . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliance dating back to the american revolution , and including two world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial us security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show similar reactions in the aftermath of the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war of the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s .
after all , a fundamental principle of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate . they can do so in a variety of ways , such as through their investments in education , funding scientific and technological research , and building efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not a way to go , not least because it reduces the revenue needed to make such investments , particularly in developing countries , which , according to the international monetary fund ’s 2015 report , lose out on more than $ 200 billion a year because of tax avoidance by multinational companies . when countries create tax regimes efficiently designed to steal tax revenues from others , the result is also less money for education , healthcare , poverty-reduction programs , and climate-change measures . this should not be allowed , and multinational companies should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are cut .
broad market returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility likely to become more frequent . what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs coincided with bull markets . index performance largely dictated security choices , and asset allocation has meant little more than amassed into stocks , bonds , and credit . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stocks and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty . but those days are likely to come to an end .
cambridge – economics teaches that measuring an individual ’s well-being is the quantity and variety of goods that he or she can consume . consumption possibilities are in turn maximized , by giving firms the freedom they need to take on new technology , the division of labor , economies of scale , and mobility . no one can deny that this consumer – and the market-centric vision of an economy has produced much fruit . consumption is the goal ; production is the means to it . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and object of analysis .
fragmentation – meaning the end of the internet , there is a real threat . some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . but continued expansion is not guaranteed . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be very costly to the world , but that is one possible futures outlined last month in a report by the global internet governance commission , chaired by former swedish foreign minister carl bildt . the internet now connects nearly half the world ’s population and another billion , as well as some 20 billion devices , to be connected over the next five years .
by contrast , the american economy ’s apparent relative strength today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , helped to lower energy prices , and eliminated america ’s dependence on foreign oil . but it was not a great inspiration to the future , which may help to explain why roosevelt ’s new deal was unable to end america ’s economic malaise . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , helped to lower energy prices , and eliminated america ’s dependence on foreign oil . likewise , much of the advances in communications in recent years reflect innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example – that have been indigenous toward the us .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies – part of the reduction in unpaid care work undertaken by women in developing countries . this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action from governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require extra investment , creating job opportunities for women , and introducing action to help women move into more productive work . mgi has identified several interventions worldwide that could easily be deployed more broadly . measures proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls are provided with sanitation facilities in the places where they study , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch forbearable operations , it is beholden to their interests , and it does not always have the political support it needs to get the job done . but , like unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . in particular , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments are using coercion – banned under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees . the other major multilateral migration agency , the iom , assists the return to migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced them to their place of origin or other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . unhcr , as currently conceived , is not the independent , nonpartisan agency it claims .
beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold a disproportionately large share of financial assets . as a result , most countries face a trio of inequalities – income , wealth , and opportunity , which , left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . meanwhile , companies have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their tax bills , including through so-called “ inversions , ” by which they shift their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions . with political gridlock blocking an adequate fiscal response – after 2008 , the united states congress failed to pass an annual budget , a fundamental component of responsible economic management , for five years – forcing central banks to bolster economies artificially . to do so , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures like quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation .
but how long can anyone be expected to support “ god and guns ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ’s ” ? all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat populist dress – that is , a pluto-populist . but why has his base let him get away with pursuing policies that mostly hurt them ? according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and whites blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote on the basis of nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than on their own financial interests . and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of legal migrants in poland .
unfortunately , february 23 is not the red army ’s only remaining relic . while all other large european countries abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens between 18 and 27 must serve for 12 months . exemptions are based on medical conditions , and are given to university students and employees of particular organizations ( such as the police ) . the holiday received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider it special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . another soviet military legacy is the obligatory conscription system .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and profound crisis , albeit perhaps one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg – and containing a population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation in its climate , history , and culture . it once was the pillar of the roman republic ’s cultural dynamism and influence . the first african region , christianized , was the land of saint augustine , and a major source for africa ’s catholic evangelism .
true , any arab – indeed , virtually anyone – knows precisely who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist has had to mask the culprit ’s image speaks volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists in the arab world . since the failed arab spring – of which tunisia is the only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule . khashoggi ’s disappearance has only deepened their anxiety . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists who toe the official line , while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power .
third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including the regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions , such as hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . fourth , the rating agencies ’ role needs to be rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced . reversing financial liberalization will be hard , but its negative side effects , including greater systemic risk , require a set of reforms . first , more information and transparency about the complex assets , and who hold them , are needed . second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges rather than over-the-counter markets , and should be standardized in such a way that liquid secondary markets can arise .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . arabs must take charge of their own agenda , becoming the primary force defining their future , and that of their countries . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , resist non-existential threats , and hegemonic expansionism . of course , they should continue to engage with the outside world in strengthening their strategic relationships and alliances . but they also have to become less dependent on others .
one of the empirical investigations most often cited for this argument is a paper by timothy besley and robin burgess , using manufacturing data across indian states for the period 1958-92 . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that fail to adopt such regulations . this conclusion came to underscore the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to boost production and employment in manufacturing is to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws protecting workers . that wisdom prevailed , not only in india ; it influenced policies accordingly across a wide range of developing countries . now , a new paper by servaas storms effectively demolishes another famous trope in neoliberal economics : the argument that labor markets “ rigidities ” depress output and employment .
britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . security concerns increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies in parallel . britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . swelling migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense at border controls . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers taking off on a mission , with one pilot saying to others , “ it seems a long way off to bomb a few young men from south london . ”
given this history , it is noteworthy that in his speech the day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and for all to work together for venezuela 's well-being . after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he proposed deepening his revolution with fresh legislation on the organization of society and the economy . he emphasized that the people voted for chávez and socialism . these laws , already approved but not fully implemented , should be the catalyst for a new institutional arrangement within the country , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and the people , and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . meanwhile , all public powers – all of them now obey chávez .
occasionally , however , the damage is not repaired . genes can be damaged by environmental factors such as radiation and chemicals . they can also be corrupted by products of normal metabolism . if damage occurs in key genes that regulate cell growth , cancer can develop . our bodies have elaborate repairing systems that maintain our genes ’ integrity , even at the presence of harmful agents .
ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a potent democratizing force , allowing innovative start-ups to compete with established businesses , disrupt entire industries , and develop new ones . but , as some of these startups grew into behemoths , they turned that force on their head . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now owns it , and rather than democratizing the economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the world ’s inequality problem . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
still , one is left wondering whether this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove strong enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between the american and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? for , although the american people have drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and us president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high water mark for diversity – americans have often shown a xenophobic distrust of immigrants that has drawn too close to power . in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu has described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that , by “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting alone . ” in particular , worries about divided national loyalties , and about “ fifth columns ” , have been intense . “ but the developing world can make a lot worse off .
five years of declining gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . this , too , implies that if greece could escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp . greece ’s economic weakness increases its current level . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues , and outlays , have raised the overall deficit by nearly 5 % of greek gdp .
the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a tremendous change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970 ’s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ ’ ’ fixation on regaining an equal status with china . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts alluding to the need to learn from china . as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can together reshape the world order . ” in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , defense minister referred to china , followed by premier atal bihari vajpayee , the language of china as india ’s number one enemy .
while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of a crisis , his order that banks raise their capital is entirely justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost . because hildebrand was independently rich , this approach would not have easily worked with him . the head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has published new , non-bank-friendly regulations . so , too , has her received the stick , instead of a carrot ? fortunately , we have a good independent test , and we have a good independent test , with no help .
second , and partly as a consequence , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . while italy has had to price risk more precisely , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio nearly 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be assessed as a higher default risk . but now even the mighty bund have started to suffer from heightened market anxiety . it remains hard to think of the unthinkable , much less to work out the details of it , but any rational player must now reckon with the possibility . third , financial-market participants , and , increasingly , real firms are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not an end in itself .
those arabs were put to use outside the kremlin walls that very day . indeed , by coincidence , on sunday the young football fan vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev 's administration , was meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama 's national security council . that meeting was taking place as a component of a rally led by surkov , a first deputy in president dmitri medvedev 's administration . one quotation from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make ready for elections , train your brains , and muscles . " you can always depend on our support , as well as on our own .
last september , the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world sticks with “ entrepreneurship as usual , ” global temperatures could rise more than 4 ° c – well beyond the 2 ° c increase deemed “ safe . ” this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to call into question political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to reach a new global climate-change agreement by 2015 . today , that sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy , just becoming green , which is the problem . but , as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by massive investment in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables . hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit the frog once lamented that “ it is not easy to bein ’ green . ”
the organization and allocation of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect the global equilibrium that disappeared long ago . much of the so-called third world was either recently independent or remained colonies ; all were extremely poor . the search for a new managing director of the imf provides a keen reminder of how inequitable today 's international institutions are today . after wwii germany and japan were the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china was engulfed in a civil war that tied mao 's communists to power . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect realities that have long ceased to exist .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made his last-minute appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the movement of people within the united kingdom . merkel rejected , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . the irony is that merkel now faces the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 . immigration tends to be good for an economy over the long run , especially if the ratio of pensioners to workers rises . but when the level of immigration exceeds a country ’s capacity to absorb the new workforce , there can be severe economic and social costs , at least in the short term .
the odious debt idea was animated in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and a 2010 report by the center for global development ( cgd ) , which has suggested that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of odious obligations . the mechanism would take the form of the declaration that debt issued by a particular government is considered odious . such a declaration lowers the flow of funds to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments will renounce their predecessor ’s debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ courts will not enforce debt contracts ) . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just done . the cgd ’s report proposes that a regime should be considered odious if it abuses human-rights abuses , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or mismanages public funds .
that cleared the way for bhutto ’s return , who remained prime minister until 1996 , when she was dismissed yet again – this time by her own pakistan people ’s party . ignoring constitutional requirements , zardari did not transfer executive authority to his prime minister , and instead expected the two prime ministers who served under him to follow his orders . but his confrontation with the military intensified over the years , resulting in yet another coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , and a new election brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who had been assassinated previous december , to the presidency . it was sharif ’s turn in 1997 .
in egypt , for example , the fertility rate declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman in the last 15 years . during the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate fell by more than 50 % , to slightly more than two children per woman , while per capita income grew at an impressive 3 % annual rate . the last two decades have witnessed similarly sharp fertility declines in poor countries that are now showing solid signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate declined from 4.8 to 2.9 % over the last 15 years . rich countries ’ switch from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring in the 19 th century in western europe and throughout east asia throughout the 20 th century -- in which fertility rates fell dramatically .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to build the pacific-rim trading bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) meeting , which is now being met by the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . both countries are also on similar paths militarily . it has constructed and launched its first aircraft carrier , with plans to launch more of it . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defense systems . though china still has much to catch up , its total defense spending is already second only to america ’s .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its past levels of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external force is available . one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries currently play out there . the resulting power vacuum has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession experiments by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . indeed , the us ’s partial withdrawal implies that the end of enforced stability in the old middle east will not spawn the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq already suggest , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly uncertain .
for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than a country ’s traditional growth sectors . in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in the increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption targets that claimed 10 % growth under china ’s ’s previous model . this means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption objectives – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with much slower gdp growth than in the past . why , then , are services so important to china ’s rebalancing ?
indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces in the eu ’s member states would strive , with increasing success , to compel their countries to withdraw from the eu at a central issue in domestic political debate and electoral campaigns . certainly , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , with spain opting for the status quo or a more moderate vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government has embraced . but a worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : a “ grexit ” ( greece leaving the eurozone ) , a “ brexit ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” brexit ” ( the uk leaving the eu ) , and a spanish election result reminiscent of greece ’s . should such a perfect storm occur , the eu would find itself in doubt , because other member countries would consider or start planning their own post-eu futures . the united kingdom now seems certain to hold , with a 2016 referendum on remaining in the eu and a far-left party – determined , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic reform – could win spain ’s general election next fall .
new york – the price of oil is at historic highs . leading economies are entering recession . and yet , in this gathering storm , it has been hard to find any real accomplishment by global leaders . aid to the poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised increases . the doha round of climate change negotiations is going around the circles , and the international monetary fund is set to take action .
deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone for politics , with the frustration and uncertainty of a future overshadowing hope . instead , they paved the way for his defeat , with the result . two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina around the world would spur economic revival . frustration even afflicts the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile . in just a few short years , the package of pro-market reforms and economic opening seemed out of step with the rest of the world .
not surprisingly , a kind of survivalist chic became the updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960 ’s . this drive toward an off-the-grid , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there-on-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy is all but inevitable : americans have been pumped full of hope that more consumption makes them happier , and instead left with a pile of debt . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” but in america now , it is the morning after . americans have lost faith in those who , in the boom times , purred , “ trust us . ” they have been asked to admire the top of the income pyramid , if only to find that they look at a pyramid scheme .
indeed , it has repeatedly shown a knack for disaggregating its strategy into multiple components , and then pursuing each element separately in such a manner as to allow various pieces to fall into place with minimal defiance . to be sure , china is wary of avoiding any dramatic action that could become a casus belli by itself . indeed , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of beginning a war on its adversary , while seeking a foundation – brick by the brick – of the hegemonic middle kingdom . this shrewdness not only keeps its opponents off balance ; it also undercuts america ’s security assurances relevance to its allies , and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . chinese leaders ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ stated desire to settle territorial disputes simply means that it can achieve a position strong enough to get its way without having to fire a shot .
los angeles took decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , converted rapidly when they saw the benefits . these cities are learning from one another , building on good ideas , and jettisoning poorer ones . fundamentally , this is the right approach to managing systemic risk and shifting across complex interconnected systems , and for successfully managing common resources – though it has yet to dent the inexorable rise in global greenhouse-gas emissions . in the coming decades , we may be seeing a global system of interconnected sustainable cities emerge . if successful , everyone will want to join the club .
new york – a few years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met chinese president xi jinping in beijing at the people ’s great hall . when addressing us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” so named for the greek historian who chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens made war between the two inescapable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on the other four . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions upon a thousand people , desecrate the environment , and deeply injured china ’s traditional culture ? chinese intellectuals tend to avoid the issue , shrugging it off as irrelevant , and anyway too disagreeable to contemplate . things are finally moving in the right direction , and letting not , please do anything that may upset that hopeful movement . we need to look ahead , not back , they say .
london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? they are all cases in which powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind a front . and they are all instances where the effort has not worked . the global uproar triggered by the panama papers , 11.5 million of the files taken , apparently by computer hackers , from the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca , is likely to continue for some time to come . writings ’ release exposed the extremes and sometimes expensive , lengths to hide their assets and avoid taxation .
its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions were agitating to push wages up to the european level , despite lagging productivity . but this answer is far too simple , given such signs of dysfunction in greece . the longer-term consequences will not be savory , but difficulties . some will say that the fateful mistake of allowing greece to adopt the euro was taken in the first place . that the country was unprepared to have been clear .
unfortunately , for all of us , the explanation bears repeating nowadays . prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne blame the euro crisis ; indeed , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . depressions , recessions , contractions – call them what one gets – occur because the private-sector spends less than it did in the past . that policy was destined to produce a financial crisis , because it was tied to leaving governments and banks with depleted assets and larger debts . despite austerity , this year ’s uk structural deficit has swung from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in the cuts each year .
paris – last month , the concentration of co2 in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend , which fits the worst-case scenario laid out by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , persists , the concentration of co2 will rise above 800 ppm toward the end of this century , with devastating consequences . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of this century , a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , the predicted global temperature increase of 2.4-6.4 ° c caused by such high ambient co2 concentrations is expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in ipcc scenarios , including loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid imposing such risks and uncertainty on future generations , global carbon emissions that stand at 8.5 gigatons annually must be halved by 2050 .
the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and ensuring that they are sustainable . but it is not enough to get our respective homes in order . good science is the cornerstone of both policies . because fish and other ocean wildlife do not stay within national boundaries , international cooperation is vital to the world ’s long-term health , and to the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs . the european commission has just produced a proposal to reform a common fisheries policy designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries .
today ’s transformational health-care advances owe much to new genomic information , the availability of big data to influence real-time decision-making , more focused and individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . further breakthroughs , enabled by science and technology convergence , can be expected , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . technologies that engage patients in their own health care , and allow more seamless adherence to medicine regimes , have the potential to improve disease management , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs . in this process , partnerships between health-care and technology companies will become increasingly important . but they are just the beginning .
capital controls have real costs even when stanch inflows . they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically , or economically , or have sheer heft to get around the constraints . moreover , establishing controls on one type of inflow simply leads to its being disguised in other forms . even in tightly managed economies like china , massive capital inflows have been able to find their way around the controls over the last decade . when money incentives to flow across borders are strong , they will find ways , abetted by the proliferation of multi-country firms and the expansion of international trade , which serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls .
in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the risk-pricing calculus and potential returns . today ’s markets are easy to explain in terms of fundamental factors : earnings are growing , inflation has been kept at bay , and the global economy seems to be experiencing broad , synchronized expansions . political crises , however the sensational they may be , are not likely to alter investors ’ economic calculus . and , while major central banks are planning or have started to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now .
just a week before the uk voted later this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , “ still wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” might “ decide that they should have stayed in bed . ” skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s claim that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ” instead , the tories won an outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . what might possibly have gone wrong – or , rather , right ? more than once he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by a erroneous belief that not reducing the deficit , he may forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) .
to my right sat dagan , who had just completed eight years as head of mossad ; to my left sat dore gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views on how best to guarantee israel ’s security , and it is worth recapitulating their respective arguments . dagan countered that the military ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s borders , regardless of where those borders are drawn . he insisted that israel can guard against east europeans only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river , which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . gold argued that returning to the pre-1967 boundaries would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ”
instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his famous first step onto moon ’s surface 50 years ago . if a rip van winkle economist were to wake up today after a decades-long sleep and see only those numbers , he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans were unemployed and standing in lines outside soup kitchens . but such a view is not ideological ; it is a view of the opposite . rather , global interest rates are scraping the floor , because gdp growth outside the us is so sluggish . the idea that an american wins in a global slump might sound like the sardonic musing some unreconstructed marxist in a dingy corner of faculty .
from 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s privately owned forest plantations grew by more than 1.4 million acres . though not planted for climate purposes , these trees soak up their carbon dioxide . but growing forests also cut new zealand ’s emissions by a comparison year of 1990 . new zealand has successfully negotiated to include this specific emission offset in its overall figures , neatly balancing the actual increase . for safety ’s sake , the country has also bought lots of foreign offsets , including highly practiced ones from russia and ukraine .
berlin – europe finally appears to have moved past its multi-year economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . so they have decided to jump off a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” there is much evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . for every cause of optimism , there always seems to be a new cause for concern . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters opted for nostalgia for a nineteenth-century past over whatever promise the twenty-first century might hold .
all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded selected countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often rejected cooperation with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries rather than influence their actions . new york city – the basic outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach – became starkly apparent in 2009 . it prefers acting with other countries to go it alone . its administration believes that the united states should talk to other governments , even if it disagrees profoundly with its character . and it has shifted america ’s focus from what countries do within its borders to how it operates beyond them .
in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are far from being fair and effective ; major improvements would include the establishment of the central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emissions credits . this bank would also ensure that emissions trading does not run counter to the goal of remaining within the entire global budget , for example , through the complete sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the start of the treaty period . all of this is still utopian for the moment . until now , the wealth of nations has been based on the combustion of coal , gas , and oil . but if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries not so far down the path of carbonization ( such as large parts of africa ) or that leave it in time ( like india and pakistan ) , able to become rich by helping societies that must de-carbonize quickly .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss on donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , her public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s commissioner for africa , had an even more unpalatable suggestion : african countries should cede land to the european union as special economic zones in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not just unethical ; they would not end the crisis . humanitarian aid alone will not work , either , except as a stopgap measure . in many countries , policymakers and media have been portraying refugees as threats to security , cultural cohesion , and public resources .
since 1988 , iran has had a government-regulated system of purchasing kidneys . a charitable association of patients arranges the transaction , for a set price , and no one except the seller gains from it . a more systematic study of the iranian system is still needed . a 2006 bbc television program showed many potential donors to turn away because they failed to meet strict age criteria and others who were required to visit the psychologist . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eliminated the waiting list for kidneys in that country without eliciting ethical hardship .
moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly created international monetary fund . at this point , however , the two narratives diverge . with the advent of the cold war , us president harry s. truman ’s administration and the american congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . to this end , they authorized epu ’s use of $ 350 million of a marshall plan funding . the concern then was discrimination : european countries , worried , would find that it easier to import from one another , but , lacking dollars , still refuse to import imports from america .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states have shown , among other things , that public distrust of global integration is on the rise . that distrust could derail new trade deals currently in the works , preventing future ones from entering the eu . the dangers implied by this scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity for decades to come . as a former trade minister for costa rica , i know how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trading policies that deliver benefits to all of their people .
that backing appeared to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which has used venezuelan ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in the hope of building up a regional anti-americanism in the region . the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set to hold it there . there have been serious ground over the last three years to believe that latin america is going through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent worldwide spike in commodity prices has meant that chile ’s conventional regional powerhouses , brazil , and mexico , have weathered the economic booms of their own . chávez is the loser , not only because he has provided farc moral support ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” not terrorists , and publicly calls uribe an american stooge ) , but also because he believes that farc covert military support has been provided .
with house prices declining , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue their profligacy . even if the american federal reserve continues its lower interest rates , the lenders will not rush to make more bad mortgages . for america today , the real question is only whether a short , sharp downturn , or a more prolonged but a shallower one , a slowdown . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures , thereby passing the economy ’s problems on to its next president , just as it does with the iraq quagmire . its chances of succeeding are slim .
as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect across the eu . but , with linguistic training and the implementation of something like the lisbon growth and job strategy ( which aims to create an innovative “ learning economy , ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could be enhanced . given the risk inherent in betting on policy convergence , labor mobility – which provides highly valuable human capital , especially a well-educated young people , to leave lagging regions for those offering more and better employment opportunities – could prove to be a critical adjustment tool . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea . as it stands , however , centralization carries its own costs .
fixated on europe , they forget that they live in moscow or irkutk , rather than paris or budapest . today , most russian elites feel themselves not only european but , i believe , too europeans . “ it ’s not america ; you have to work here ” -- a popular joke . many new russians , working like machines 16 hours per day , seven days per week , look to their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found in asia ’s tiger economies . culturally we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem , and a great deal was inherited from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and collective history .
other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , are also feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . the un ’s population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to suspend work in affected areas . far from moving to halt this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it . while suu kyi does not control a military that is waging a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who has previously won international acclaim – and the nobel peace prize – for her role in the fight for democracy in myanmar .
in march , the united kingdom will most likely invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering a formal withdrawal process from the eu . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that ensures the wellbeing of the future eu-uk relationship . this will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already set a timeline for just 18 months . while eu-turkey relations are not at their best , the dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their common interests , which are based not only on economic interdependence , but also on the refugee crisis and collective fight against terrorism . european politics next year will absorb the brexit negotiations .
according to the american state department ’s own human-rights reports , curbs on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , the bombings of christian churches , and the rejection of shia islam in order to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in the practice of their own faiths , a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative portrayal of islam . moreover , members of najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of penalties within sharia law that might imply strict limitations on muslims ’ rights to choose how they practice their faith . international measures of press freedom and corruption expose persistent deficits as well .
indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report stated in uncharacteristically strong terms that sea levels are “ virtually certain ” to continue rising in the coming centuries or millennia . but recent revelations about antarctica are different . there are not many human activities whose impact can reasonably be predicted for decades , centuries , or even millennia in advance . the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming through greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels is another . moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the seas will rise .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies ruined , and relationships fractured by terrorism . it is a continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and the dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their sleep at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks did garner global attention , most people do not realize that in the last five years alone , 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and groups espousing it are threatening to undo africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also in decades to come . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and ungoverned territories where extremist groups can germinate .
the first problem is china ’s economy , which is so dynamic on the surface , but so rickety under-neath . the analyst chi lo lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside a micro failure . the giant rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus of november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises ( soes ) through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of a global recession . but the prize has been a growing serious misallocation of capital , the resulting portfolios of bad loans , while excessive chinese household savings have inflated a real-estate bubble . moreover , chi argues , the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged impairment of demand in advanced countries .
xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as the concept of a new type of great-power relationship , ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others have concluded is the near-inevitability of prolonged conflict between a rising power ( china ) and an established power ( america ) . but , viewed in the american view , this is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . on human rights , the us argues , there are indeed fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and current systems . moreover , the american insistence that it does not include china ( as it did the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise has been facilitated by access to us markets , as well as to global markets through american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization . for these reasons , the bilateral strategy of trust is growing .
for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different from competition among firms . and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually falls on their employees , rather than on capital . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes distort ” behaviors and hamper wealth creation . but this is simplistic , at best . america ’s congressional budget office ( cbo ) and its institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have demonstrated that more than 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholders , not workers .
doctors are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and families who want them , and even are willing to pay for them . european welfare states therefore face a stark dilemma . there is no doubt that holland spends a substantial amount of money on caring for the old . thus , european welfare states face a severe dilemma . doctors are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and families who want them , and are even willing to pay for them .
in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport , because the courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its outskirts . the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . unfortunately , it is far from clear that the china model of infrastructure development can be exported universally . some developing countries in asia are working in the opposite direction . china ’s strong central-government overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams ; for many years , roughshod over environmental concerns and worker rights .
the tax plan put forward in the name of the republican party by paul ryan , the speaker of the house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than those for charitable contributions and mortgage interest . that change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for very substantial reductions in individual tax rates . and even when there are revenues to be made , as airports might be , firms might be discouraged by the need to rely on long-term pricing agreements . it is also easy to fall back on the thinking of tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand . but congressional republicans may insist on paying for cuts in personal income tax by restricting the deductions that individuals now use to reduce their tax bills .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . observers often cite the loss of habitat in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . in kenya , however , an innovative and widespread conservation project is underway . and then there is the most frequent charge of all : that increasing poaching is endangering species , such as elephants and rhinos . begun in aberdare mountains in central kenya the “ rhino ark , ” originally conceived in the protection of the highly endangered black rhine from the ravages of poachers , is backed by the very people who might resist it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas .
the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from the 1.5 % low of 2005 , but close to half of the 7.5 % average recorded over the last three decades of the twentieth century . there is nothing cyclical about the enduring aftershocks of a japanese-style balance-sheet recession , which has now been apparent for almost five years . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely begun in the us for households . the convoluted rationale behind this strategy is fairly unsettling – not only for the american people , but also for the global economy . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive .
ecb president mario draghi deserves the top marks for balancing germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline and the mediterranean ’s need for accommodation . moreover , the desire to be admitted to the club has led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries that later joined the european union . europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , together with the more recent chaotic demonetizations elsewhere , show that a successful transition was far from assured . a second early success was that , by virtually all measures of international use , the euro instantly became the world ’s second global reserve currency . more recent entries on the “ success ” side of the ledger include the progress of some periphery countries , notably spain , reducing their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs .
hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to be taking hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . the european union ’s economy is sliding into severe , and in all likelihood protracted recessions , largely self-inflicted . if she is unlucky , the crisis will come in the run-up to the german federal election year , and all previous calculations could come moot , because , despite germans ’ frustration with europe , the electorate will punish severely those who allowed europe to fail . while germany continues to attempt to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the eu ’s crisis-stricken countries are facing a real threat of deflation , with potentially disastrous consequences . it is only a question of time – no longer very little time – before economic destabilization is fueling political instability .
even today , owing to a variety of sophisticated means , we can detect very small nuclear tests in distant locations . the ctbt is needed because of the role of nuclear tests in developing and improving nuclear weapons . it sets a new standard for the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) obligations and verification . such trials are also political symbols that have no place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . the treaty is also fair — it includes the same rights and responsibility for all of its parties .
the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes have rested – probably too many for any single leader . we need leaders with enough mastery of the detail , like china ’s last premier zhu rongji , who can not only tell us how they will get us from a to z , but can actually lead us from b. looking around , leaders like this seem to be an extinct species . their ability to act is constrained by their political environment . or , if they exist at all , they seem to be constrained by dysfunctional political systems . looking around them , leaders like thailand seem to be extinct .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within the borders of june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within international law . today , the palestinians are pushing for statehood on a mere 22 % of territory that was part of mandatory palestine , until israel was established unilaterally on areas far larger than those awarded by the un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . the un security council resolved in november of that year that “ acquiring territory by war ” was unacceptable . subsequent security council resolutions and international treaties upheld this principle . in fact , a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of networked world interests and shared causes are probably more resilient than one crammed into the artificial and , increasingly , constraining – box of the national state . in that sense , economic success in china or india may be those states ’ undoing , because middle-class political aspirations render current arrangements dysfunctional . conversely , we may find ourselves in a world whose eastern half is organized into strong authoritarian state structures with the west embracing post-state association models . the question for international governance is how to provide a framework of institutions and rules in a world of competing organizational structures . policymakers ’ response is depressingly predictable : faced with a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon us states ’ own states and diplomacy to their fate .
the party ’s rhetoric , however , reveals little about how these goals will be met . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . many hope that these changes will help the ccp become more effective , boosting the market ’s role , and avoiding the so-called middle-income trap that ensnared many emerging-market countries . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to strip itself of vested interests .
countries can do more to compel individuals to leave for iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list , for example , would help . such flows should be shut down by governments and financial institutions alike . but nothing would have a bigger impact than turkey deciding that it will no longer allow itself to be a conduit , and that it will enforce united nations security council resolution 2178 calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . another component of any strategy must be to counter is its appeal and propaganda . curtailing the flow of recruits is even more essential .
we also need to understand the mechanics of the politics of russian succession . political technology means secretly sponsoring fake politicians such as bogdanov , setting up fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to avoid a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ enemy . ” medvedev himself may find some or all of this distasteful , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that is hardly likely to vanish overnight . in 1996 , the enemy was the communists ; in 1999-2000 , the chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs . ” now is the us – the supposedly hostile west and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won stability .
in a broader context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures is proceeding steadily , if not at the desired pace . the visegrád group , cefta , a central european initiative , has produced a thriving free trade system and an increasing flow of investment across the region . so our task was not just to remake a state , but society too -- its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . our newly freed societies now must learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned a new economic and political language . through learning one another ’s languages , through cooperation based on shared values , common interests as well as historical ties , central europe has shown what spectacular results can be achieved .
in 1988 , conservationists decided to finance and build an electrified fence to protect an area of aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water-catchment areas , as well as kenya ’s national park , are vitally important . ring-fencing was designed to prevent human-population intrusion and park degradation . but it also protected farmers , whose crops were regularly destroyed by the marauding elephant and other wildlife . local farmers welcomed the initiative , which influenced decision-making to expand the fence to surround a perimeter of aberdare range .
first , social inequality has grown unabated in the west over the last quarter-century , owing partly to the soviet union ’s disappearance and , with it , the threat of expansionist communism . the specter of revolutions has forced western elites to use the state ’s power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . but , when communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , the west ’s rich , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed for a return to the welfare state , causing inequality to soar rapidly . this was tolerable for as long as the overall pie was expanding , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended that . these protests have two major causes , including some of them .
so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asia-pacific countries . in 1998 , the un estimated the total value of the illicit drug trade at $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade . the critics say that the figure is just half that – still a remarkable sum . colombia today is far worse off than the chicago under al capone . drug prohibition effectively imposes a tax on the global trade in illicit drugs enforced by governments , and assembled by those willing to violate laws .
but the railroad ’s first section – initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that ran farther away from the chinese border – was constructed by forced labor , including russian inmates and german and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were used , they were not nearly as enthusiastic as the official accounts claim . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few re-enlisted , and many deserted before completing their term . tatiana insisted on being built in 1974 on the politically correct date , after which “ clean labor ” was deployed . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era construction showed what dying the soviet system was still able to achieve .
and , with support at around 26-29 % , italy remains popular despite its poor performance running the council of rome . whereas proportional representation determines two-thirds of the lower house ’s seats , one-third determines first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies where m5s probably lose , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities . in fact , a party grouping that benefits the most from the current electoral system will be the only one that has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : berlusconi-led center right . m5s ’s problem is that , owing to a new voting law , it will have to win roughly 40 % of the total vote in order to secure a parliamentary majority . as he showed with his 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 election victories , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always shaped coalitions .
upa ’s critics long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares , and freight rates in the rail industry – unable to cover maintenance expenses to ensure trains and tracks , much less enable expansion and improve service delivery – reflected the government ’s inability to make tough decisions . but , in the pre-election interim budget , the upa government finally got the bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in rail fares and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . per india ’s code of political conduct , the budget change was deferred until after the election . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement the price increases , though officials made sure to emphasize that they were merely following through on an existing mandate . it is true that coalition politics prevented decisive action , with a railway minister summarily dismissed by his own party leader , whom the upa was politically unable to confront – after attempting to raise fares .
this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing degree of cultural diversity . many indians , particularly the poor , lack documentary evidence of when and where they were born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only in recent decades . while the non-muslims would , thanks to an approved bill , receive a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims are suddenly willing to bear the onus of demonstrating that they are indian . under an approved bill , muslim immigrants may be declared illegal . coupled with the government ’s plan to create citizens ’ even more contentious national register , the authorities will be able to disenfranchise any indian muslim who is unable to prove his or her provenance in india .
the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was entirely unexpected . is europe today poised to come to terms with a similar failure of an important financial institution ? the financial sanctions on russia are not targeted , temporary , or fully credible . having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , especially given europe 's economy 's close linkages with russia through trade and energy . compounding the problem , no one really understands the precise connections among russian and european institutions and markets .
signs of social distress are proliferating . south korea ’s divorce rates have doubled , fertility rates have fallen to the fourth lowest among advanced economies , and suicide rates are among the highest in the oecd . more than half of middle-income households spend more each month than they earn . gdp has nearly tripled over the last 20 years ; but , with real wages rising at less than half that rate , growth has become decoupled from the fate of ordinary citizens . south korea is troubled , for two key reasons , for example .
while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional arms , its capacity to fight terrorism is probably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that allowed it to avoid bush ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s manichean worldview , which has merely reinforced , rather than undermined , the enemy of fanaticism . it is precisely to prevent the development of a collective security fear that we need to change the equilibrium between security and freedom . this may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” ” ” ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous . police action must be merciless , even when that means more controls and oversight .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from the payday loan industry , which makes most of its profits from lending at high interest rates to people with no alternative when desperately needed cash . as the government shutdown lengthened , the stock price of payday lenders rose . mulvaney , too , devoted considerable time over the last two years to weakening the safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau previously attempted to implement in order to prevent some of the industry from its worst abuses . ross should read the mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half of the banks and reflect on the high cost of credit for low - and middle-income families . or he could just ask mick mulvaney , an acting white house chief of staff .
seoul – a vast revolution in military affairs is taking place across east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , an ex-politburo member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission , on corruption charges , and japan ’s “ re-interpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit the country to provide military aid to its allies . despite the rising regional tensions that have inspired such movements , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are ill-advised to lead to direct confrontation . but the tiresome march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the us , to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways , if that outcome is to be avoided . more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years has to do with a fundamental source of instability in the banking system , one that we can and must design out of existence . to do that , we must advance the state of our financial technology . in a severe financial crisis , banks find that the waning market value of many of their assets leaves them short of capital . they can not raise far more capital during crises , so , in order to restore capital adequacy , stop making new loans , and invite their outstanding loans , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . this problem is rather technical in nature , as it is its solutions .
but he maintained that islam was an essential part of the chechen tradition , and presented to himself as a leader who fully understood this . so he encouraged the islamic dress code and built a vast mosque – one of the biggest , if not the biggest , in europe . he rejected wahhabism , the jihadists ’ ideological framework . yet , having enjoyed a huge subsidy from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny and granted some security . kadyrov also has a catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority .
roads , airports , and communications systems must also be revitalized if trade is to be restored . afghanistan poses special difficulties in reconstruction , because it is not a society with a strong political center . the educational system needs nearly from scratch , and with so many women anxious to return to teaching , a revived educational system will also help afghanistan 's democratic politicians gain a powerful labor lobby . special attention should be given to elementary schools and libraries outside of cities . village housing must be provided at a massive level .
indeed , it is a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ divergent approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experiences . bank institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they face . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , when the fed stood idly by as the economy collapsed , is the molding event seared into the consciousness of every american central banker . what i have just described is no mere hypothetical .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit cutting took effect , forecast a major reduction in unemployment , or a recovery in economic growth to brisk rates . as a result , “ full recovery still looks a long way off , ” he warned . i raise all of this because krugman took the victory lap in his end-of-2014 column on “ obama ’s recovery . ” “ and i ’m starting to worry that it may never happen . ” on the contrary , “ the disastrous turn toward austerity ” destroyed millions of jobs and devastated many lives , ” he argued , with america ’s congress exposing americans to “ the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts .
a small operation in finland is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes will spring up worldwide . even though many are in trouble , it is probably not the best time to launch a new car company , either . yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , it could well be a good time to start a business replacing gasoline engines with electric ones . borrowing from the open-software movement , räsänen and his colleagues want to make the idea and fundamental designs free , and encourage lots of companies all over the world to implement it locally . the group ’s initiative , led by r2p , is referred to as ecars – now !
compared to these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya seem to be the height of success . but i think that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise way to measure whether and to what extent a government is effective . the united states , with its government , which can hardly be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . if its criterion for effectiveness is its ability to achieve all of society ’s goals , we probably never will find such a thing .
these and other funding streams have helped african researchers develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . in 2003 , the african union and a new african development partnership began implementing a continent-wide strategy “ to develop and harness the science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation , and to integrate them into the global economy . ” africa ’s leaders pooled their science resources earlier this year .
london – five years after the collapse of the american investment bank lehman brothers , the world has not yet addressed the fundamental cause of the ensuing financial crisis – an excess of debt . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to foresee the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was assured so long as inflation was low and stable . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , the us failed to anticipate how painful its consequences would be . official forecasts in the spring of 2009 anticipated neither a slow recovery , nor that an initial crisis , essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel a knock-on crisis in the eurozone . and that is why economic recovery has made progress far more slowly than anyone expected ( not to come at all in some countries ) .
for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition is a way to exit without falling off a cliff edge . a third deal in phase two will center around a uk-eu relationship roadmap after 2021 . the big difference is that the uk will lose its voice . this will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration on where both sides hope to end up . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will allow the uk to stay in the eu in all but name .
fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or gay people . the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia , and salafi extremists and theological moderates . al qaeda ’s agenda is as much about creating a new islamist caliphate as it is about waging jihad against the west . muslims find it hard to understand how we can believe that our societies are civilized when pornography and drunkeness express openly . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as a matter of individual ’s attachment to his or god ; muslims see it as an organizing social principle .
indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which defeated his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and to keep ukraine within the russian camp . so why has the eu given an association agreement without being able to offer ukraine anything comparable to what russia has offered ? the answer can be found in the relationship between europe and russia . with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe , it was forced to retreat into a frontier that it had extended westminster since peter the great – ultimately to the elbe and the thuringia . yanukovych has always been the kremlin ally .
the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism was associated with weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . what is needed for high performance ? basically , it is productive change , which i call economic dynamism . less obviously , a country does not want misguided or pointless change ; it wants investments that appear to the financial sector as productive . for employees to develop , they need to be imbedded in a stimulating workplace , with new problems solving , harder tasks to be mastered , added abilities to prepare for .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . second , the standard view of business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to account for it firms ’ monopoly power . above all , the public must develop a deeper understanding of it ’s economic effects , particularly how the technologies that have improved the lives of so many are enriching the lives of so few . new public concepts are also needed for regulation of new public information channels , such as social networks . and , third , laws intended to protect private information should be reevaluated to ensure that it firms are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in as many years – this time in its central african republic , interventionism that seemed discredited after america ’s invasion of iraq appears to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with recent operations justifying their achievability rather than their merit . to understand how this shift has occurred is to see why , more often than not , such intervention has failed to attain its goals . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays requires nothing more than unilateral decree on humanitarian or counterterrorism goals , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous link to ongoing united nations deliberations . a military operation may also be referred to the un security council , but only after the fact , when the council ’s decisions can no longer make significant inroads on the ground .
the simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models make them useful in explaining both the price mechanism and the elegance of key aggregate economic variables . but both models are unable to describe or analyze the actual behavior of key market participants . he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failure because they mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models for truth . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession ’s patrimony , tradition dating , at least to adam smith , that prized grand and unifying theories of political economy and moral philosophy . the contemporary obsession with reductionist and mechanical models seems to have propelled the profession from theory toward ideology , putting it out of touch with the real economy .
after all , such no-strings-attached databases do not just facilitate sharing ; they allow stealing . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity , the main treaty regulating access to biodiversity . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity , the main treaty regulating access to biodiversity . participants at policeman 13 must focus on the need to protect resource providers ’ rights . after all , the question of how to regulate access to biological sequence data is now cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the un food and agriculture organization .
as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the hardest work of ensuring growth , for it must create – and not only copy and adjust – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations . the remarkable boosts to productivity that has been within america ’s grasp will ultimately result in accelerating growth of real gains and real wages , if only american policymakers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging measures , actions to “ protect ” output and employment . but for everyone except bush – and those left unemployed by the demand lag – it presents an extraordinary opportunity . as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , for it must create – not only copy and adjust – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations . if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , especially given that one powerful effect of ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to make it much easier to participate in the global division of labor now centered in the us .
at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and high levels of inequality – this must include using platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . rather than focus on meeting rising demand for meat by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have done in the past , it is working to help reduce overall meat consumption , a major climate-change driver . this propels the latest transition in corporate stakeholdership , which has focused not only on scaling more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale up . to avoid another public backlash , they must compel these platforms to serve not only as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and citizens . earlier this year , the artificial-meat producer producer beyond meat celebrated the rapturous stock-market debut .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s 11th ministerial conference . the wto ’s ’s ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy . some kind of deal is usually delivered , but only at the last moment , and its language is often vague . this time , however , the outcome might be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even a symbolic agreement that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign . with the united states having historically led the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to be unlike any other .
similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance nationalist narratives that can prove very handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . there are more extreme cases than that of poland . poland introduced such a law in 1998 , under its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . the pis accrued substantial electoral support for one , thanks partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends .
there seems to be little appetite for proposals to vary capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . instead , the reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for leading banks , and pre-funding deposit insurance by a special bank levy . this would allow capital buffers to be created in good years , which could then be drawn down in bad years . admittedly , there are difficulty with all proposals to limit the scope of “ risky ” banking , particularly with respect to a global economy with free capital mobility . as is frequently pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there will be plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in extending insurance coverage to the millions of americans who would n’t otherwise have it . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing discussions with india over intellectual property . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform as a result of pressure from the powerful american pharmaceutical lobby . and , contrary to critics ’ warnings , he has not pushed up health-care costs ; indeed , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward .
economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein , in his study of the great depression in the united states , have shown convincingly that an economy in transition requires strong aggregate demand to pull resources in new sectors . if both the old and new industries of the economy are in a slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline , and structural adjustment will stall . slashing the state sector abruptly , and expecting to achieve transformation through austerity , is no way forward . likewise , cutting fiscal support ( via government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity , allowing the resources to be reallocated to new sectors that facilitate services and urban employment ; but that would aggravate – at least at first – the demand shortfall today . robust aggregate demand is always essential to successful transformation .
london – how radically will digital currencies transform our methods of exchange ? with innovations in digital payments barreling ahead , these questions are now commanding the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to save the israeli-palestinian peace process is about ending in failure . if anything , israel has accelerated settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while escalating its demands , particularly concerning the stationing of israeli forces in the jordan valley . while achieving a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to preserve even the façade of the us-led “ peace process , ” which has been all process and no peace . and that might not be such a bad thing , at least for now . negotiations are failing for several reasons , beginning with israel ’s ’s continued colonization of territories occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including the us .
vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of yukos , and , as a lawyer , defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , after their arrest in 2003 . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for which treatment had been withheld . in december 2008 , the moscow city court approved its release on bail of 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 at that time ) . he was subsequently disbarred , and was himself arrested in april 2006 . her request was refused , as was her earlier plea in 2006 to suspend her sentence until her two small sons reached the age of 14 – a request she was entitled to make under russian law .
moreover , they need it to happen by the end of the year to prevent further damage from large tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline requires that the two sides start to take symbolic and substantive steps at once . as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text as the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should remove american provisions for america ’s pursuit of tariffs after the agreement is signed , and unilaterally re-impose tariffs if the us concludes that china is not honoring the agreement . and it should add the commitment that china will execute the deal in ways that are “ consistent with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ”
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by traveling the well-worn path of industrialization . peasants have become factory workers , a process that has underpinned not only an unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in social and political organization . labor movements have led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . a progression of manufacturing industries – textiles , steel , automobiles , emerged from the ashes of the traditional craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . over time , manufacturing has ceded its place to services .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima catastrophe . there have been 57 accidents since the chernobyl disaster in 1986 . indeed , when compared to other sources of energy , nuclear power ranks higher than oil , coal , and natural gas systems in terms of diarrheal diseases , second only to hydroelectric dams . another nuclear-power accidents index – this one including costs beyond death and property damage , such as injuries or irradiated workers and malfunction , which did not result in shutdowns or leaks – documented 956 incidents , from 1942 to 2007 . while only a few of those involved fatalities , those that collectively killed more people than have died in commercial american airline accidents since 1982 .
in contrast to some of her predecessors as chancellor , merkel , growing up in east germany , is wary of russia ’s strategic designs . russia is closer to berlin , or even paris than washington or new york . there can be no doubt that russia and china will benefit , at least in the short term , from america ’s abdication of leadership . some people are not overly bothered by this , and this is not the only ones . this may no longer be so easy as soon as the american people no longer perceive themselves as reliable protector and fear of china ’s turn into panic .
and that would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and millions of people displaced by more than a half-century of fighting . the deal also included an historic land-reform program . for uribe and his opposition allies , the main objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . negotiators decided that an unconditional application to justice would be impossible . but , if a deal is negotiated well , the end result has yielded significantly more benefits than costs .
america , for example , was mistaken to invade iraq in 2003 , but it was right to join the fight against isis and to rescue yazidis from the massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to reduce the city to dust . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because forces opposed assad lacked the needed popular support , and the us was unprepared to help them win that support . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , because they were effective fighters with strong support from their own people ; and they probably would not have survived under the isis caliphate . elsewhere , it is right to strengthen south korean and japanese defenses , but evidently wrong to threaten a nuclear war .
as communism was discarded , so was the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized . the individual became the ultimate agent of change – the individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates ’ models . such individual ’s identity is derived not from class interests or from other sociological characteristics , but from market logic , which dictates the maximization of self-interest , whether as a producer , consumer , or voter . trouble began at the end of the cold war , when the collapse of bankrupt communist ideology was complacently interpreted as the triumph of the market . indeed , economics has been mired in a pedestal and enshrined in institutions like central banks and competition authorities , unwisely divorced and made independent from politics .
madrid june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needed to amend the constitution . indeed , while there were some grievances about transparency during the campaign process , democracy prevailed , with a staggering 86 % of eligible voters turning out – a rate rarely seen in europe . moreover , by giving the peoples ’ democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the vote , they enabled the party to enter parliament for the first time with representation across the country , not just in the kurd-majority areas . the rest of the world – and especially the european union – should take note .
germany will have to deal with the consequences of this refugee wave for the years to come . to distribute the burden more equitably , germany has tried to have a european quota system instituted to allocate applicants among the eu ’s member countries . but germany ’s ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ” frequently , arab families are sending their minors to germany in the not-unjustified hope of obtaining the right for other family members to follow the later . if an application is successful , a refugee has the right to bring along his or her family members as well .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race needs to understand that national opinion polls fail to provide a precise picture of how the election might turn out . thanks to america ’s electoral college , it ’s not who wins the most votes nationwide that matters in the end , but who wins on which states . each state is awarded a certain number of votes in the electoral college , depending on the size of its population . in almost every state , a candidate who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote is awarded 100 % of the popular vote . the candidate who crosses the threshold of 270 electoral college wins the presidency .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will start exiting zero policy rates later this year fueled growing fear of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ currency , bond , and stock markets . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , and a ensuing likely rise in the value of the us dollar , may be worried , wreak havoc among emerging-market governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . but , while the fed ’s prospect of raising interest rates is likely to produce significant turbulence in emerging countries ’ financial-market gyrations , the risk of outright crises and distress is more limited . the concern is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 the end of its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging countries ’ financial markets and economies . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past few years , they will now face an increase in the real local-currency value of such debts , while rising us rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby increasing debt-service costs further .
indeed , under chirac , france appears increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views and the universality of its model – the very charges so often levelled against george w. bush ’s america . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france was powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding a trade portfolio . faced with america ’s unilateralism , he failed to promote realistic multilateral solutions . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france was powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding a trade portfolio . on the contrary , despite being right about iraq , chirac became isolated , an isolation that grew because he , too , failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush .
urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water and sanitation for all . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , energy , and environmental facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes , enabling more people to escape poverty . governments should take the lead in ensuring careful management and sustainable use of scarce water resources . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – rely on uninterrupted supplies . and expanding global population , set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 , will strain water resources still further .
while iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . ahmadinejad has benefited from a massive spike in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings . but iran has faced similar economic difficulties before – in the 1980 ’s , oil exports to the us plummeted significantly amid the country ’s eight-year war with iran , and global oil prices in 1986-2000 were extraordinarily low – and handled them relatively well . today , four factors have made the oil embargo especially unbearable . first , prohibiting oil exports more painful when world oil prices rise .
israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defenses against an existential threat . not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities , while the npt party , the israelis are saying , but it has also put israel ’s destruction high on its agenda . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political environment changes in a radically positive way . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which has been committed to a strategy of nuclear opaqueness , both view nuclear states and want the world to accept that status . across-the-board nuclear equality ultimately can only boost iran ’s nuclear claims .
whatever china ’s ultimate economic effects ’s first modest step toward floating its currency , one has to admire its strategic brilliance . protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap massive punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been caught flat-footed . but no one knows whether china ’s infant step is the start of something much bigger , because china ’s ’s authorities have hint at each day and deny the next . they want to keep bathing in press coverage , but if they push their china-bashing too far and too fast , protectionists will be seen as hindering a delicate behind-the-scenes negotiation . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise to 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when or what happens next .
and here , too , obama , in particular , will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his intention will be to appear as a reliable and unsurprising partner . one of his close political allies recently declared that the united nations security council should approve military intervention in syria , france “ can envision ” participating in that effort . hollande is unlikely to be less friendly to america than was sarkozy , viewed by many as france ’s ’s ’s most pro-us president . hollande supported the military intervention in libya in 2011 , and joined the condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime .
deflation -- a steady , ongoing decline in prices -- has given firms and consumers powerful incentives to cut spending and hoard cash . it has reduced firms and banks ’ ability to service their debt , and might trigger a chain of big bankruptcies that erodes confidence in the financial system , providing further incentives to hoard . hence the keynesian solution : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and cut taxes ) to keep the economy from ever approaching the precipice where deflation becomes possible . but if this is an issue solved more than fifty years ago , why is it haunting us now ? such strong incentives to hoard rather than spend can keep demand low and declining , and unemployment high and rising , for a far longer period than even a most laissez-faire-oriented politician or economist dared contemplate .
millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are at risk of exploitation , abuse , and worse . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises is testing that system as never before . and of the 50 million children living outside their own countries or have been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , facing new threats to their lives and well-being . this is not rhetoric ; it is reality . the united nations , with its support from countries like sweden , and from working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef , is eroding suffering whenever and wherever it can .
given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set the bar high , putting pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . to this end , a coalition of african countries , with support from the united nations economic commission for africa and the new climate economics , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the continent on a more inclusive and sustainable growth path . next month ’s un secretary-general ’s climate summit should be just such a moment , with countries committing to roll up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , so as to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . partnerships with domestic finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will underpin this process .
and there can not be a stable economic order – at least not in democratic countries , as long as electorates reject its underpinnings . the rejection of french and dutch voters by french and dutch voters was , according to all evidence , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than it was a rejection of europe . but the realignment of the wealthy , developed countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists such as milton friedman , which began around 1970 , broke with all that . widespread fragility in social relations , most importantly , but not only in terms of jobs , is slowly becoming intolerable to a growing segment of populations in many developed countries , not just in europe . capitalism could be reshaped after world war ii because it buttressed three necessary types of regulation : social security , which served as a principal stabilizer , at least in advanced countries ; keynesian tools for fighting domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policies aimed at stimulating universal consumption , without which the genius of capitalism – mass production – does not work .
in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target inflation rate because it “ communicates the central bank ’s intentions , ” which are ” to “ minimize uncertainty . ” the announced rate should be substantially positive , they wrote , because if officials tried to get it close to zero , any mistake could result in deflation , which “ might endanger the financial system and precipitate economic contraction . ” at the same time , in an age of internet rumors and fake news , the world today can look slightly unmoored from history . that might create a sense of real risk in the short run . inflation targeting has other effects , too , which appears to be more so on central bankers ’ minds .
berkeley – with its ambitious , made in china 2025 strategy , china has made clear its goal of securing global economic leadership in the advanced technology industries . that places it in direct competition with the united states , which currently leads in those industries , in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies , with both business and military applications . with its investments in such dual-use technologies , china is seeking more than competing commercially with the us ; it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations . and it has deployed a variety of methods – including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of joint ventures with chinese partners , evasion of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from the us and other trading partners .
already , chinese financial markets have suffered , while those in the us have held their own . the berlin wall came down , bringing german reunification , and yugoslavia disintegration . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave rise to the czech republic and slovakia , which – together with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . today , a trade war with the us would damage all economies . but an american – which is relatively less dependent on foreign markets , possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than other countries – would do better than most others in contracting the world economy .
the treaty would promote stability in the irish economy and contribute to stabilizing the euro , the us currency . it would increase confidence in iran , enabling the us to increase existing flows of inward foreign direct investment . ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , should the us ever need it . most importantly , the fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting across the euro zone . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , as the us is working out of its bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and return to markets .
in europe , legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . it is a difficult subject to action , and doing so is impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . in the short run , young companies should view ethics not as a marketing gimmick , but as a core concern . after exploring this issue with legislators in several countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many of the myriad issues that need to be considered . all organizations should invest in ethics officers , or some review process , involving people who can judge all of the implications of a great-sounding idea .
the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies are closer to shahbag protesters than to the hifazat counter-protesters . the traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but , all too often , clichés become established because they are true . the young people at shahbag are largely urban , educated , and middle class ; hifazat derives their support mainly from the rural poor . but it must navigate a difficult path , because both point of view have significant public support .
cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none has been adopted widely enough to challenge the current order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could change that . now that the company has thrown down the gauntlet , governments should use the opportunity to advance a form of digital currency that serves the public good . but true bombshell has given rise to a sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system , not at some later date , but right now . even the current monetary system ’s staunchest defenders will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone .
why has the great recession and the disastrous meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan not elicited a similar response today ? before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations between cold war superpowers had hit rock bottom . economic constraints and the chernobyl catastrophe helped spur us to action . reagan and i were nonetheless able to build a reservoir of constructive spirit , through steady outreach and face-to-face interaction . what seem to be lacking today are leaders with the boldness and vision of building the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
throughout europe , it is not only british prime minister tony blair , who is accused of “ presidentialism ” nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder is facing the same accusation in germany ’s current election campaign . indeed , prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy does not even enjoy what is known as prime minister . it offers a moment to scrutinize why they are so enfeebled . august is the traditional month when parliaments recess for the summer .
as long as capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets held by national governments , and are easily irreversible , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer . first , a new set of external disciplines comes hand-in-hand with a special , neo-liberal model of economic development that remains untested , and will foreclose the development strategies that worked in the past and others that could work in the future . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reforms in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency about short-term capital flows , increasing rather then reducing systemic risks . the narrowing of national autonomy in the formulation of development strategies puts the cost at which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward .
many news stories about female ceos and other high-achieving women are coded with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked into their new roles ( and therefore do n’t deserve them ) ; they inherited them from male relatives or spouses ( and therefore do n’t hold the reins of power for long . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on the gender that a woman is weakened . and all of these clichés were reproduced through barra ’s appointment at gm . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s ’s reputations ; in the case of ceos , they also reduce their value to their companies . for example , cnn covered the story by referring barra a “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never have been used with male at the very top , for whom presumably hard work , talent , ambition , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack . ”
few observers expected china to turn suddenly into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . state-owned enterprises are still favored , books are burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life . how long this will last is anyone ’s guess . but the country ’s repressive turn of the last decade has nonetheless been disappointing . dynasties come and go , but the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
more recently , elections in europe 's postcommunist countries have brought groups to power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to equate hamas with any of these political forces . first , elections rarely solve fundamental problems . nevertheless , one has to wonder about a winning movement with quite a few elected members in israeli prisons , and others who are not likely to get permission to enter the country where they were elected so that a new parliament can not function properly . all of this tells us three things about democracy , and it is not true that many of this .
the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by television propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia can jangle itself within ordinary russians ’ breast without the slightest dissonance . that is why lugovoi is being asked for his autograph . we are evidently confronted with the mystery of russia thought that has proved so unhinged to others , so unyielding to every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at their length . but only one such “ patriot ” was granted to the honor of being allowed to perform this act . this should not , of course , be taken to mean that the patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement concede the justice of the british charge .
and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to the next , it creates persistent inequality traps . · remove barriers to opportunity ; governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize the disadvantage . moreover , given that inequality largely begins in early childhood , governments must invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . only by supporting the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that inequalities in a single generation are not passed on to the next . · such investments will require additional domestic resources .
some , it should be pointed out , are being made . greece has slashed its spending by a larger sum relative to gdp than any country in europe since world war ii . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions . other reforms – particularly political reform – will be hotly contested . spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the crisis began .
but the aftershocks linger : household-debt loads were still at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and personal-saving rates averaged just 3.9 % last year ( versus 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . understandably , fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have failed to take the bait from their monetary and fiscal authorities . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditure have averaged just 0.8 % year on year in the last five years , the most severe and protracted us consumer slowdown in the post-world war ii era . instead , they have since cut back on spending . two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families have borrowed freely .
though his motivation , at least in part , may have been a yearning for social justice , perón was in effect bribing recipients to support his own rise to power and wealth . he was as good as his word , and he was . perón ’s government nationalized banks and railroads ; increased the minimum wage and improved living standards ; reduced the national debt ( for a while , at least ) ; and restored the economy . with his handsome and outlooks wife , the “ woman of the people ” “ ” ” at his side , perón succeeded in persuading voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally change the country . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , though the move toward autarky eventually undermined growth , causing the country to lose its position among the world ’s richest .
eventually , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic , all the more so against a backdrop of political tumult , which is set to continue for the foreseeable future . it is not hard to imagine the next administration – whenever it comes about – perceiving the cap as an impediment to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , because the economic case for it is weak in the absence of extreme credibility problems . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers .
part of this can be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . prosperity was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering a stock-market rout . here is one message from markets that is worthwhile , even for non-investors : political confidence may be at a low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-shocked by the last recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by the behavior of markets the years ahead are more likely to resemble a stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s than the crisis-ridden decades of 1973 through 1989 . a curious conventional wisdom developed in the inflationary 1970s and 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad for share prices . while experts spent the last two years propels that market thesis has quietly restored an older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and therefore good for stock .
a legislative advisory program is another tool business can use to influence public policy . elsewhere , the nigerian federation of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) has used its agenda over a few years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , that task assumed critical importance because of a country ’s opening to democracy . to shape legislation such programs requires : * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ;
the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors attempting to withdraw funds . the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive growth in 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand , for example ) . now , the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . its medicine has done little to save the economy , and it has not . the currencies have collapsed and the banking sectors have collapsed .
the obama administration knows the iron law of american politics – “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” – as well as anyone else . nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an attempt at diversion ; it also sends the message that a domestic-policy impasse is not his fault . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right now . obama has done a much better approach to foreign policy than domestic policy , all the more surprising given the weak hand that he has been dealt with : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model . so expect plenty of foreign-policy news in the months ahead .
but it is just one aspect of europe ’s urgent need to import the people of africa and asia . europeans will also see the dismantling of their welfare states and social security systems ; the cherished “ european model ” ” ” ” of pension , health-care , and unemployment benefits being replaced by a despised and widely feared “ american model . this is not to say so , because europeans crave america ’s rigors of less cosseted social conditions , but because it is the only way european governments can stay afloat financially . europe ’s population shrinkage is the uprooting cause of all these developments . the “ demographic time-bomb ” that economic analysts have been discussing for a decade or more is now exploding .
the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short military intervention are imperfect , and , to be remotely efficient , require a degree of international solidarity generated only by exceptional circumstances . should a rogue state be allowed to get off its provocations ? the trouble is this : in most cases , it will . and they watch with glee at how europe , japan , and america , instead of acting together , depicts the weakness of disunity . they feel confirmed in their belief that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of business .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . this largely explains why germany is routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy . but economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is driven by productivity growth , not by the ability to capture an increasing share of global markets . european policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness , ” ” and genuinely looking to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . while imports must , of course , be financed by exports , the focus on trade competitiveness is drawing attention from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells , the united states accounts for 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ” in nevada ) , and europe is just 4 % . that would be a momentous shift , at least for now . china currently controls the entire value chain of electric cars , including cobalt ’s supply , an essential raw material in battery manufacturing . and the more important battery cells are to the total value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effect will be . yet europe could still develop battery production through recycling old electronics , develop new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking , particularly their fiscal thinking , to put the people first . governments need to reduce the bureaucratic red tape so that entrepreneurs can take on more risk . but breakthrough technology companies like apple , facebook , and twitter also rely on people with access to well-funded education systems . governments that make it their central objective of maximizing human wellbeing end up not only encouraging higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics . and while there is growing “ tech ” for good ” european industry , it will succeed only if it is backed by up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public outlays .
in developing countries , pro-trade voices could help to turn the debate on the opportunities of global integration , rather than emphasizing exceptions . the initiative will have to come from the top if the case is to be made within each country for more open markets , and to help those facing adjustment . it is untenable , for example , in wealthy countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment are effectively able to block an agreement to open new markets for services and manufactures , which account for more than 90 % of employment . all countries will have to give ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden on itself alone . pro-trade forces , in turn , can speak up in the political process .
inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq and a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states do not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . indeed , iran ’s prompt support for shia-led iraq has been partly intended to preempt competition from regional opponents . iran has already countenanced maliki ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a wider policy reconsideration is needed to quell the threat , so is it . but iranian critics of intervention seem to believe that there is a middle way . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible ; but fears are growing that regional overreach could trigger a long list of dangerous implications .
the impact of the lessons learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , residents of odisha state issued a warning early on the arrival of cyclones phailin . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 was killed during harvard . by the time the storm made landfall , many people had already been evacuated . in houston , the authorities were poised for harvard in part because of lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 .
for catalan separatists , this means that they now face what the political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . given that the status quo is volatile and independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ? and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent that from happening ?
trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , who has been tasked with settling the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the subject , jason greenblatt , seem to understand this . even that futile scenario might be optimistic , because it assumes that talks get off the ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not just unjust ; they are violating united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted nearly unanimously last year ( the us , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution demanded that israel immediately and completely halt all settlement activities in the occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem ” – activities that amount to “ flagrant violation under international law . ” any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions on both sides , the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to convince their publics to accept .
the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly referred to as one belt , one road ) that xi has christened “ the project of this century , ” is a true reflection of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic choice to strengthen commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , taking a chance to accumulate “ soft power . ” in doing so , however , china does not openly call into question the foundations of the liberal order . and they are unprepared to risk a foundation of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the remarkable communiqué from the world leaders attending the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promote “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , and women ’s empowerment .
part ii of the stalled document , the eu charter of fundamental rights , can be deferred . to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen , without clearly defined fundamental rights . the question , then , is whether new leaders , as early as next month , succeed in a new effort to adopt the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union demands . part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is merely a compendium of existing eu treaties , which – because these treaties will remain in place regardless of whether they are part of a new paper – can be decoupled from the rest . the best way forward is to focus on essentials .
this is true of the nations of europe . but for europe , there is a more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance is needed today more than ever , and it is far stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . in the long run , this is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy and the rule of law . as the world changes and opens across national boundaries and culture , which values will govern the twenty-first century ? forget the short-term electoral politics of our own , there or the eu .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . similarly , a few months ago , two police vice ministers , minister of transportation and former heads of state petroleum corporation , all were brought to justice on charges of selling state assets to private companies at a loss .
a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing . a minority coalition that included the greens would force the csu to compromise on migration and climate policy , which is futile otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , to die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . the fdp , for its part , wants to participate in such a government for precisely that reason . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s ’s red-green affinity . and merkel herself would try to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp to avoid becoming dependent on it .
china is still a low-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one fourth of that in the united states . although beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much poverty remains high . chinese corporations ’ high levels of debt could be a source of financial instability , even though a few officials have stressed that they are not worried . one us government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese foreign tourists who went abroad last year used their credit card to purchase about $ 1 billion of goods they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some of those european and american branded goods are actually manufactured in china ) . it is revealing that to achieve the five-year plan ’s goal of eliminating poverty by 2020 , which requires reducing the number of poor people by 55 million , a poverty line defined as just $ 354 a year , or less than one dollar a day .
another explanation is fear of contemplating the unknown . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the inner degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historical record of failed one-party regimes may benefit from reading leon trotsky , who well known something about the revolutions . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – sovereign default and civil chaos – could be far worse than the status quo . dictatorships are regarded as indestructible before falling , trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable once they are toppled .
neusoft ’s equipment looks like little personal computers with attached sensors . after moving on to manufacture automobile audio devices , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , began hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machinery ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a new business was born , and the company was not . liu realized that neusoft could link the standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a wide range of digital sensors . neusoft started as a low-cost competitor to the oracle tgadt corporation .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not just in europe , but across all of europe . inside germany , there have been endless debates about german identity – what one historian has called an continual dispute about what being germany might mean . but , on foreign-policy terms , postwar west germany – and , later , a reunified germany – was utterly predictable : never against the west ; always for a greater europe . now the “ berlin republic ” is very secure about its identity and seemingly offshore in its dealings around the world . there are structural reasons for this change , and it is still true that we need to see why .
as he put it , “ we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful risks … . we must forgive the mistakes that have been made because someone has been trying to act aggressively in a company ’s interest . ” startup companies exemplify the potential benefits of risk-taking . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through decades of robust growth , is well known for having supported brilliant blunders . while only about 49 % of manufacturing startups , and 37 % of information startups , survive for four or more years , those that do have managed to produce breakthrough innovations . and oversight that warped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that fluid motion could efficiently transport heat within earth ’s boundaries – turned out to be critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
though reelected as a president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since plummeted , to 45 % . according to putin , he rooted for trump ( but , of course , has not encroached on trump ’s behalf ) , because they share a desire to improve the bilateral relationship . now , more than ever before , putin needs america ’s friendship . russians resent the buildup of economic insecurity brought about by trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also been inflamed by the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which includes increasing the retirement age .
in some cases , american firms bought us banks , held on them until korea recovered , and then resold them , reaping billions in capital gains . in its rush to have westerners bought us banks , the imf forgot one detail : to ensure that south korea could recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . whether american investors had greater expertise in banking in emerging markets may be debatable ; that they had greater expertise in tax avoidance . of course , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represents ) profit from capital market liberalization : they make money as capital flows in , as it flows out , and in the restructuring that occurs in the resulting havoc . in south korea , the imf urged the sale of a country ’s banks to american investors , even as koreans steered their own economies impressively for four decades , with higher growth , more stability , and no systemic scandals that marked us financial markets with such frequency .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , has died . just a year earlier , in a poll on a leading philosophy website , parfit was voting the most significant living anglophone philosopher . parfit was not a household name , and parfit was not . of all the philosophers i have known since i began studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest to a genius . reaching a philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he had thought of any response i could make to his arguments , considered a few possible replies , and knew objections to each reply as the best counters to those objections .
but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures , and the stigma attached to a disease that is often sexually transmitted . on paper , the hospital appears well staffed and well endowed , but on my rounds there , i found the halls and wards deserted and barren . few therapeutic and diagnostic options have been available . even a basic test like a cat ’s scan scan would require transportation to another regional hospital .
but the level of average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain much lower under the latter strategy than it does when the israeli labor market is gradually re-opened for palestinian labor . comparing the outcomes of the two simulations suggests that large palestinian labor exports to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . this confirms the enormous short-run welfare cost to palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor . these simulations also suggested that continued reliance on exports of labor outcomes in lower growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exporting goods . so what trade policies might boost exports of goods , rather than labor ?
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many hoped that the economic decline he overseen would soon be reversed . but , a year and a half later , the us economy shows no signs of recovering , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges for america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ?
but , in this case , when a son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles , serving a regime that seeks to take advantage of the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , does not voluntarily reflect those sins ? obviously , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in their choice of the architect , whose names conducted such dark historical connotations . the name of speer alone probably did not matter to officials who opted it . totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese – desire to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world their superiority . china believes that it has found its own model to develop and modernize , and its rulers regard the games in the same way that nato and leonid brezhnev had as a means of “ selling ” their model to a global audience .
the way to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial superiority , but because it stands for lofty and universal values . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has dubbed constitutional patriotism ( others have dubbed it civic patriotism ) . in the recent dutch election , liberals could argue for upholding the rights of immigrants , because respect and tolerance are the traditional dutch values of which any dutch patriot is free to take pride . this philosophical position has practical implications , and it is not the result that we have . macron can proudly call himself a french patriot , because france gave the world liberté , égalité , and fraternité .
to succeed , the icc will need to overcome strong resistance , not only from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump . if the icc is to fulfill the role it has created , it can neither bow to such pressure , nor allow its deficient performance to continue . instead , its leaders , particularly its chief prosecutor , the yemeni attorney fatou bensouda , must take recent criticism as motivation , demonstrating that they are up to the task . in april , when the icc set out whether to proceed with its inquiry into war crimes in afghanistan , including any that may have been perpetrated by american forces , the trump administration revoked the icc ’s visas . carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its ability to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates for the last two years . the reasons are clear : as the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries sustain very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-growth emerging-market economies are unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during the recession . this asymmetry has spurred tremendous capital flows from the former to the latter , which are likely to continue . emerging economies fear that this flood of capital drives up their currencies ’ exchange-rate movements , in addition to fueling current-account and asset bubbles , which past experience has taught them is a sure recipe for future crises . compounding the problem , one of expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues the paramount global currency .
greenpeace , together with other organizations , has opposed the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , campaigned against the introduction of the beta carotene , transformed in the human body into vitamin a. a. the world health organization estimates that it causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 pre-school children each year , about half of whom die in just 12 months . moore ’s mortality figures appear to be on the high side , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , it causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 preschool children each year , about half of whom die in just 12 months . deficiency also increases susceptibility to diseases like measles , still a significant cause of death in young children , though one that is declining as a result of vaccination .
the implication of this has been obvious . so what lessons can history teach us about our current global economic predicament ? in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some particular set of assets in financial markets was mirrored by the excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which in turn generated excess supply of workers in labor markets . if you relieved excess demand for financial assets , you , too , have cured the excess supply of goods and services ( a shortcoming of aggregate demand ) and excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) .
it is a gap perceived in areas as diverse as health care , education , and combating climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems on their own . no single actor – be it a government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of investors – can solve today ’s ’s truly big problems on its own . that is why chan zuckerberg ’s initiative was designed for maximum flexibility , allowing funds to be channeled into non-profits , directed into private investment , or used to help influence policy debates . similarly , bec pledged to boost others ’ work by adopting “ a flexible early approach , ” providing seeds , angel , and series of investments , with the expectation that once these investments are de-risking , traditional commercial capital will invest in the later stages .
trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks he can do something about it . the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to create a system to extend american dominance . the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place , where a person ’s economic fortunes do not depend so much on where they happen to have been born . but a more cynical view pervades populist logic , namely that , in its excessive adherence to globalism , america has sowed the seeds of its own political and economic destruction . american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor in china and india into the global middle class .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering the presence of conventional south korean and american forces and reintroducing the south ’s tactical nuclear weapons . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the assumption that this could enhance communication , thereby diminishing the nuclear threat . but , in such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to such outsize demands as the withdrawal of american forces from the region , and economic and energy assistance to prop up the regime . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation it needs to remain in power . but more conventional power would add little to capable powers already on the ground , and bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would merely make both sides more anxious ( and offshore america ’s naval nuclear forces already pack a sufficient punch to reinforce deterrence ) .
so the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – took a left form . the story is similar in the major two exceptions to right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . in spain , most immigrants until recently came from culturally similar latin american countries . in greece , the main political fault lines were austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund . in both countries , the far right lacked the breeding ground that it had elsewhere .
this coincided with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to pariah status . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . british and american negotiators secretly met with libyan counterparts to resolve the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other terrorism issues . eight years later , pinned by an american predator drone , and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise .
a growing population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also human capital . botswana 's unbelievable annual per capita income growth of around 13 % in the last decade has been accompanied by a decrease of nearly six children per woman to under four . why is rapid population growth wrong for a country 's standard of living ? the math is simple : more people mean that everyone gets less . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity goes , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in every child 's education to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success .
the modernizers need to form a coherent force – and most likely a political party – rather than simply relying on wisdom ( and good behavior ) of the crowd to govern the country . that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . but it does mean understanding that even a democracy has many rules – ideally rules that a majority has chosen but are not chosen directly ; those rules generally reflect the compromises among elected representatives who can argue and negotiate in person , reflecting the overall preferences of those who elected them . that may sound somewhat too similar to the old system . like it or not , they can not do that , as a flower children brigade ; it needs to pick leaders who can speak for and negotiate for them .
rising incomes ; increasing demand for health care ; childcare and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new job opportunities . assuming that current gender occupational and sectoral patterns hold , women could have access to 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to 19 % for men . this slight advantage for women reflects the robust growth expected in sectors like health care , where women are well represented . in fact , in many countries , women account for over 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers , and the sector could comprise one-quarter of future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing accounts for a similar share of potential job gains for men ) . given the sectoral and occupational distribution of these opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to take advantage of them .
it was new year ’s eve 2003 , during a concert at the newly opened house of musical chairs in moscow . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store of marketing , the thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were apparently flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and proximity to power ) . directly throughout the aisle from me , putin appeared to sit between a one-time dissident cellist and the conductor general rostropovich and his equally famous wife , the opera diva galina vishnevskaya . i myself myself once witnessed putin courting culture .
in an effort to revive growth in a difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government loosened monetary and fiscal policy beginning in november 1997 . but gdp growth soon began to deteriorate rapidly . by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to decline , producer prices had already been falling for eight months , and remained negative for a full 51 months , with cpi growth starting to recover after 39 months . yet it was too little too little too late to predict . an obvious lesson is that the government should have switched to tightening earlier and more forcefully .
so have we now moved from piketty ’s r < g world to blanchard the r < g world ? if so , can their views be reconciled ? the answer is no , and yes . piketty ’s views and blanchard can indeed be reconciled , because they discuss different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on rates on low-risk government bonds , piketty worries about the return on risky capital investments .
perhaps the risk that a greek debt restructuring would cause a financial meltdown was always minimal , with quiescent markets expected . but that is not because the fuss today ? on the contrary , compared to their likely future losses , european banks have raised relatively little capital recently , and a lot of this has been creative accounting , rather than truly loss-absorbing shareholder equity . but that is not because banks have been preparing themselves by raising more capital . banks have not failed , and there is no sign of tumbling dominoes .
in the scandinavian countries , unlike , say , germany and the us , government , not individual companies , are responsible for most social benefits . that way , economically irrational lock-in effects – whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs – are avoided . furthermore , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that short periods of unemployment do not force workers to sell their homes , or even cars . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to pay their mortgages and interest , but also indirectly the banks , because their loans to households are repaid even in times of recession . and , instead of solving all kinds of economic distress economically , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs .
but , having suffered currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate vast reserves to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has gone missing . meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis . while financial globalization has failed to foster growth , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . public investment and basic social protection can help to turn this around by creating millions of jobs .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns a family : “ to attack a family ’s institution , to regard it with contempt or to doubt its important role , the pope and the grand imam state , “ is one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” the document asserts that a family is the “ fundamental nucleus of community and humanity ” and “ is essential in bringing children into the world , raising them , and giving them solid moral formation and domestic security . ” if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
addis ababa – with almost 60 % of its population under the age of 25 , africa is the world ’s ’s ’s ’s youngest region . yet it is widely recognized that the world ’s young people are often left behind . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . frequently , they face inadequate economic opportunity , and can also be socially or politically excluded . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
russia ’s economic decline has increased its anxiety about china ’s rise . as the economist recently reported , russia worries about becoming an alliance ’s junior partner , more dependent on china than china is on russia . russia ’s economic decline has increased its concern about china ’s rise . in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia did , and the current demographics in the far east – where russians number six million , and the population on the chinese side is up to 120 million – are fueling anxiety in moscow . as the economist recently reported , russia worries about becoming an alliance ’s junior partner – more dependent on china than china is on russia .
florence – in phaedrus of wolf and lamb , the wolf could have eaten a lamb without a word , but prefers to set his “ reason . ” wolf then snarls that , if not a lamb , was his father ; after that , he immediately moves into action . martin wolf of the “ justifications ” for his evil action was a luxury . first , he scolds , because he muddles down his drinking water ( even though a wolf was upstream ) . then he argues that the lamb had named him bad names last year ( but a lamb was only six months old ) .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . arlington , virginia , the election left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to a military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing , media-bashing promising to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not speaking of the 2016 american presidential election , which put donald trump in power , but rather of brazil ’s 2018 election , won by the so-called trump of the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extraordinarily affluent men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the wealthy and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , such as social security and president barack obama ’s ’s health-care plan . she then quickly proceeded to give a long celebratory speech about america ’s heroism some soldiers ’ fight for freedom ” abroad . that agenda might seem selfish , though understandable from the perspective of the oil billionaire . but then there was something odd about the entire event , just as there is something odd about the tea party movement itself . it seemed an odd – and to many offensive – transition : from king ’s great plea for civil rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés on the military .
the start of his papacy finds populist governments in a vulnerable situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . moreover , they govern the countries in which catholics hold an overwhelming majority . they all have their own identities and strengths , of course , but they miss the protection of chávez ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s global influence , as well as its subsidies . although the degree of their religious commitment varies , they share a strong emotional attachment to religious faith , which gives francis i considerable political leverage . latin america will no doubt be one of francis ’s priorities .
but obama can not do it alone – and , so far , neither the american public nor the american congress seems committed to reconnecting with his moral compass . that should be unacceptable , for example , for the us congress to block the release of the 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared by a committee of national-security officers . we must lead the world , deed , and example . not even the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from america ’s surveillance options that have stirred americans to demand a new approach . answering the second major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will recover its economic momentum – it also appears to be “ no , ” at least in the short term , with most experts agreeing that china ’s exports – and investment-led growth model have all but exhausted its potential .
nevertheless , substantive and remarkable progress has been made , all over the last few years . to fill a prescription for a drug with a well-known pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can get rapid genotyping to identify the right dose , drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects . genotyping can now be accomplished in 20 minutes , and over time gets even faster . this has paved the way for the next-generation pharmacies . moreover , someday , we will know – through the sequencing of the whole genome – about rarer genomic variation that is corroborated with treatments response or spillover effects .
the financial crisis produced a new answer to where the greatest competitive advantages lie . from banks ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson was the need for strong national governments to bear the potential costs of rescue . very large banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable . it is no longer best subject to the most favorable regulatory regime , but to where the state has the deepest pockets . america is big enough to manage behemoths like bank of america or citigroup .
these searches are far from complete . linneaus has invented the modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , although naming did n’t get under way until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 . these searches are far from complete . linneaus has invented the modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , although naming did n’t get under way until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 . so far , we have done comparable analyses on the fate of the caribbean and indian ocean islands following first human contact , but large numbers of extinctions are likely to be there , too . the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 is increasing , as taxonomists describe new species from their skeletal remains they find in caves , where bones
syria , iran , iraq , yemen , and libya are all dealing with a civilizational mix of civilian and proxy wars . the plight of millions of refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic boon to countries in the region and europe . iran ’s nuclear pact at best manages one aspect of iranian power and only for limited periods . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . and europe is already confronting many significant challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth .
droughts struck in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa suffered major water shortages . these movements formed the space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . but the climate crisis continues to grow , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go . deadly wildfires have taken lives and destroyed billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina .
the stakes for both africa and the us are high . this is the beginning of an important dialogue with the us . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with the us will be vital for africa ’s continued growth and development . the decisions that we make now will have implications for generations to come . we owe it to our descendants and to the silicon savannah entrepreneurs already leading the charge – to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with both the conception and the reality of strategic power . such was clearly the case of france under louis xiv , the sun king in seventeenth-century england , and such is the case today in china , whose leadership is comfortable with classical europe ’s balance-of-power games . yet , to understand india ’s political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparisons are with america in 1920 . india , in economic terms , has been boosted by the way the western world now looks at it with a mixture of reverence and greed : “ what deals can i strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon be the world ’s largest ? ” clearly , india is in a different category .
an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of a country where actual mobility is low – including georgia ’s southeastern states , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina . these people favor government intervention because they believe that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness and may even generate more inequality . views about social mobility are not uniform across the political spectrum or across geographic regions . in both the us and europe , for example , people calling themselves “ conservative ” on economic policy matters believe that there are equal opportunities for all children , and that their free-market economies are fair . the opposite holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ”
once upon a time , many relatively small department-store chains and other headquarters were spread across american and business outlets in a few towns . these headquarters brought incomes in their cities by providing back-office services to their grocery shops . but retail consolidation , driven in part by walmart and amazon , has dealt a deathblow to many of these companies . the grocer , coffee shop , and barber go out of business and everybody leaves , turning the place into a ghost town . the disruption can be caused not just by industrial shutdowns .
first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to a reckless increase in the government ’s debt . the republican party ’s proposed tax cuts would generate a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , unable to plug that hole with income savings from their health-care reform plan , or with the $ 1.2 trillion that could be expected of a $ bat . the republicans must now choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to public debt ) and pursuing far more modest reform . the first scenario is unlikely , for three reasons . the bat lacks support , even among republicans , and would violate world trade organization rules .
such resilience will be tested over the longer run , though , owing to fiscal and external imbalances that were unaffected by a data revision . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add up . but that has not happened in this case , either . if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . its net export position and the current-account balance improves .
first , when it comes to climate change , the important one is to look like you are doing something . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a tremendous example of this . countries made a grandiose commitment to keep the global temperature increase well below 2 ° c above preindustrial levels ; but all their promises together add less than 1 % of what is needed . new analysis shows that only 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – are actually meeting their commitments , in most cases because they have promised very little . countries that manage to get away with massaging the data .
earlier conferences of the unfccc signatories have sought to reach legally binding emission-reduction agreements , at least for the industrialized countries that have produced most of the greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere . that strategy has faltered , owing partly to american intransigence under president george w. bush – and was abandoned when the copenhagen conference of 2009 failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the american people have never signed ) . as a result , the vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become uninhabitable . instead , the copenhagen accord merely demanded that countries for voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by special amounts . thawing siberian permafrost releases vast amounts of methane .
but the blame must also be shared with europe ’s entire political class , civil-society institutions , and the media . along the same lines during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy and compulsory consultation in the event of a threat to any state ’s security . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine could have been averted . of course , political leaders are to blame for filing away these and other “ european ideas ” in the archives . while i am , by nature , the optimist , i must admit that it is extremely difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes close .
but , as european leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to strike the accelerator . when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , which was tasked with running energy talks at the un summit , has integrated vast amounts of wind power into its electricity grid . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland is producing electric buses ; and austria is leading when it comes to green buildings . sweden , which runs an industry workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant .
one result of the deal is the paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with the difference . ” prejudice has tended to fall as the increase in participation . it has been in nobody ’s interest to disturb this live-and let-living pragmatism for very long . because immigrants have participate in the american economic and political arenas , americans are used to various kinds of people , and so are distinguishing those distinctions that might damage countries from those that do not .
this is why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program administrator mark malloch brown asked us to lead a new private sector and development commission , we agreed . entrepreneurial energy is already there : visit the gtiniest town in the poorest country on market day , and you will see the private sector in action . this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from attaining their full potential . based on our own experiences -- in mexico , which has opened itself up to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which is a leading aid donor and a major source of private investment in developing countries -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated and fixed . if small businesses could expand beyond village square , they could drive their countries ' growth better than any aid agency .
there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit . and yet , even as he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to conduct frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . so far , he has proven to be highly effective at keeping bromance alive and the forthcoming track summit . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a good fix on the president ’s psyche . regardless of when the second summit occurs , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . all of this has made emigration an increasingly appealing option , particularly for young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also turned the heat on simmering social unrest , which has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended explicitly to preempt popular protests ) . meanwhile , the state is failing to ensure basic security : in july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating medalist , denis ten , was murdered in broad daylight at the center of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for trying to prevent his car mirrors from being stolen .
the challenge of job creation for the saudis may seem to be a riches . but whenever the kingdom tried to reduce public-sector hiring , the unemployment rate soared . under the current incentives system , the authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve the productivity of civil-service jobs will actually destroy jobs occupied by the saudis . some would argue that all the kingdom needs to do is to substitute saudi for foreign workers in existing positions . but simple substitution will not do .
the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together not only contradicts the very concept of money ; it is entirely emptied . but so , too , is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency could be a substitute for fiat money . the entire point of money is that it allows parties to transact without having to barter . in the us , the reason that we do not use euros or yen in addition to dollars is obvious : doing so would be senseless and makes the economy far less efficient . but for money to have a value and generate economies of scale , only that many currencies can operate simultaneously .
this means ensuring that disruptions stemming from america ’s short-termism do not present a long-term systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . the cool war threatens to undermine these efforts , because facing the us at the negotiating table requires china to strengthen its own position above all else . the trade war has threw this lesson into sharp relief . minimizing the damage will require both sides to recognize that in an interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their own position become self-defeating when they undermine global stability and dynamism . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut and dry than the cold war was .
our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by the “ bonus/malus ” ” ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed or given a bonus depending on a vehicle ’s co2 emissions . in our system , a country exceeding the global per capita emissions average today would pay a specified amount on each ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold . they also highlight the knock-on benefits that take quick action on climate change , including reductions in local pollution , greater energy and food security , and faster innovation . to accelerate the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; include a common and consistent system for monitoring , reporting , verification ; and strong economic incentives globally . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could enable rapid reductions in greenhouse gases .
thus , expansionary monetary policy via a standard open-market operations by a central bank is the first item on the checklist of what to do during the financial crisis . three months ago , i argued that all but a minuscule and unbalanced fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant in a downturn , and i was right . by purchasing government bonds for money , a central bank can satisfy demand and push down the money supply . i was also right to say that all but a minuscule and unbalanced fringe of economists approve of central-bank guarantees of system stability , in order to prevent the risk of a meltdown in the payments system from becoming a first-order consideration boosting the demand for cash to unnatural levels . when there is no excess demand for cash , there will be no excess supply on the bonds and stock that underpin and finance the economy ’s productive capital .
the eastward expansion of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . in fact , none other than george kennan , america ’s originator of the cold war-era containment strategy , opposed nato ’s enlargement in the 1990s on precisely these grounds . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the demise of the wall , accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead of taking “ the advantage of russia ’s weakening ” in the 1990s to assert “ monopoly leadership and domination of the world , ” ” including through nato enlargement . the eastward expansion of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . for starters , it is based on the claim that in the era of the berlin wall ’s collapse and the soviet union ’s disintegration , the west promised that nato enlargement would not be possible .
even as its october world economic outlook presents a positive image of global growth , the imf , no doubt still conscious of the panglossian view it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ “ vulnerable to a sudden tightening of financial conditions , ” and that “ equity valuations appear stretched in some markets . ” against this backdrop , “ some ” is imf code for the united states . how , then , should we view all of these warnings ? the american market ’s share of global equity valuations is the highest it has ever been – a remarkable statistic given america ’s declining share of global economic activity . the international monetary fund has gone along .
given that the dollar trades at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this suggests that the dollar is actually around 6 % weaker than it should be . which interest rates are the best way to make comparisons is a matter of debate , as is the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to take advantage of the ten-year us government bond differential , adjusted for inflationary expectations . i have also developed what i have called the adjustment gsdeer , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate over the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the true interest-rate differential between the us and the eurozone . accordingly , the adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , like june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1,0590 . now , of course , 6 % is not a particularly significant difference , and this finding may not mean anything at all .
the party came to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated loan repayments , hoping to recover their money . the banks defaulted on their loans , and creditors took large , “ haircuts ” ( reductions in principal value ) . but , despite a messy default , this fresh start generated a remarkable turnaround . the kazakh government , scrambling to support its over-leveraged private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave up , and decided to pull the plug . but – and herein lies the point , with its debts written off , the banking system is now recapitalized and able to stimulate economic growth .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time , we reach just 8 % of the 760,000 children . just $ 230 a year per person is available for basic needs such as water , food , and shelter , and less than $ 10 per child goes toward education . this year must be an education – a window of opportunity opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the united nations sustainable development goals , including reducing maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our minds to questions of gender equality . but , most important , this is education ’s moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holds a book up to insurgent ’s guns in pakistan , when teenage mothers exiled in south sudan in neighboring uganda make education for their children their top priority , and when lights seen from space might include clusters of children huddled by candlelight trying to read and study , we know that the education has moment arrived .
president jimmy carter used it to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establishing diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . and us secretary of state james baker has used it to overcome the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . if the us can not provide this today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , turn north korea ’s behavior , or halt the syrian civil war on its own . over the last two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions in the middle east .
by appeasing terrorists in this way , the world ’s most powerful states give a green light to terrorists not only in the balkans but all over the world . so , before the anti-terror campaign seeks another terrorist outposts to destroy , it should eliminate terror in a place where the un itself governs . if not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves just as much as the humanitarian values they use to justify their `` humanitarian '' interventions . if the world fails to eliminate terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope do it have in defeating terrorism elsewhere ? kosovo is a territory that is far smaller than afghanistan .
whether describing the genes for the color of flowers in pea plants or the shape of the fruit fly 's wings , geneticists at the beginning of the last century believed that each gene governed one uniquely characteristic . the view that an individual gene could account for a complete biological trait is as old as genetics itself . if the relationship between the fruit fly genes and behavior is so complicated , can it really be any less so with humans ? whether describing the genes for the color of flowers in pea plants or the shape of the fruit fly 's wings , geneticists believed in the beginning that each gene governed one uniquely characteristic . soon , a few of the early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that " licentiousness , " the " shiftlessness , " and " criminality " may all be attributable to individual genes as well .
like boxing and poker , it is soft , restrained , private form of warfare . the problem is that , no matter how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs have been formulated , they remain false . military strategists have known for centuries that there is and can be no definitive science of war . and , after all , one can not have a definitive , utopian society without having a final , scientific theory of human behavior , together with some mad scientists or philosophes to preside . among other things , capitalism is a struggle among individual people over control of scarce resources .
paris – earlier this week , following days of tense discussions , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that includes an urgent reform package and a four-month extension of its financial assistance program . in any negotiation , the key variable influencing the protagonists ’s behavior , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each of them . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , the compromise does not exclude the need for deeper tough negotiations on a new financial-assistance program that is supposed to be introduced by the end of june . in this case , the issue is the cost of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media throughout the recent negotiation , with substantial speculation about the stance of the various players , particularly the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is very little support in the country .
but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture . consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast ballots in september for the lower house of parliament . western media judged that election as a failure . cnn reported on it “ neither equitable nor free . ” elections in countries that are westernized to democracy are never smooth , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as any election in iraq is likely .
it is largely a matter of providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a host of world-class corporations , which can enlist itself in the effort to provide such public goods . but , at the same time , a reliable road creates tremendous additional activity , as trade increases between interconnected areas and myriad businesses , restaurants , and hotels spring along the way . satisfying the demand for such goods is itself a source of growth . as india made off with the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments grasped the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) challenged the 2004 elections on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in a slogan “ india shining ” .
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure was unfit to pursue new challenges , owing both to firm size and their specialization in traditional sectors , along with low educational levels and r & d. yet the berlusconi government did next to nothing to address these shortcomings , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , italy could have pursued coherent supply-side reforms even at the risk of some incipient unpopularity . a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid pension intervention and further increases in labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give sound incentives to restructuring , while privatization came to a halt .
despite civil wars , malnutrition , and anguish at the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the stealthy rise of a high-technology sector . consider what is happening on several floors of one high-rise office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . there are some 1,500 africans process american health-insurance claims – working around the clock in three shifts . africans speak english , type , at least 50 words on a computer minute , take paper claims of forms supplied by american health insurers through satellite in electronic form , put it into new digital forms , and ships them back to the u.s. . if not quite representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of high-tech industries nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive .
yet the westphalian system was destroyed by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both of which were actually european wars for world domination . when guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans – even victorious european allies – effectively lost their sovereignty . the eu was conceived as an attempt to reclaim european sovereignty peacefully by pooling the national interests of european states . the goal of such efforts has always been to prevent a relapse into old arrangements of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic head butting . the westphalian system was replaced by the cold war bipolar order , wherein sovereignty rested on the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank stress tests . because many banks hold a large volume of eurozone government debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright . if it is more forthright about the risks , there is a chance that some periphery countries might have trouble plugging the holes , requiring assistance from the north .
they should expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled technologies for mental-health-care delivery . to be sure , such initiatives cost money . researchers should use fully representative testing groups , while taking care to adhere to strict privacy and accountability protocols . venture capital firms now spend an annual $ 3.2 trillion on global health research and development . they could also fund competitions among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovation in this field .
consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth lab , which i founded in 2006 after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , we have been working on more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks a bit like a teaching and research hospital . yet a teaching-hospital model could be effective in public policy . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , both ” or on governments in our case .
new england ’s fledgling textile mills was desperate for technology , and did their best to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british artisan mills . and the us had as much regard for british industrialists ’ trade secrets as china did today for american intellectual property rights . any rational international trade regime must start from the recognition that it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrain political space countries have to design its own economic and social models . as one historian of us business has put it , americans are pirates , too . america has a patent laws , but it has now protected only us citizens .
the second great change – ie , the end of global ideological divisions – also raises difficult and , perhaps , more complex issues . yes , one can debate a third way or both , or the two and a half way , but these are essentially peripheral debates . but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power starts to take shape , as well as the beginnings of a new international system . there exists a basic today , even in an occasion a ritualistic , consensus on the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for political organization with some form of free markets with varying degrees of social responsibility based on private entrepreneurship as a foundation of economic activity . making all of these changes will be difficult , if not impossible .
it would offer returns close to those yielded via equity investments , but with some of the risk offset by its long nature . finally , the regulated nature of cash flows would allow for a better pre-defined return structures than traditional private or public equity can offer . the risk would be mitigated further through the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions . public contributions , probably back-stopped by the multilateral lenders , would provide projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles . the development of brazil would require a new private-sector investment platform structured to provide bespoke returns for its different participants .
to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even hold small amounts of its currency in their reserve portfolios . but such actions may be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . and countries are keen to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic might , can not be discounted . depending on how soon china opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future . capital inflows , which will undoubtedly increase in the coming years , are driven largely by investors ’ interest in diversification and high yield , rather than the country ’s image as a refuge from troubled financial markets elsewhere , especially given that china ’s financial markets are relatively under-developed and beset by substantial risks .
but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a real rupture here may be avoided . there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , of course , ranging from intelligence sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while retreating to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-interventionist posture toward regional diplomacy . peasants in guerrero cultivate amapola for the cartels , not for life . and the american drug enforcement administration will not look kindly on any backtracking on previous mexican presidents ’ commitments to continue waging a costly , bloody , and futile war of drug choice in mexico .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . the au should show leadership on this front , pursuing the interventions that buttress constitutional democracy along its agenda 2063 . the au defied military coups . the same year , similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the enactment of a law enabling president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure . on the heels of his success in sudan , it must stand against “ constitutional coups ” carried out by presidents , because it establishes itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
fertility rates among immigrants are typically higher than in native european or north american families . higher fertility rates in the us , the united kingdom , and france reflect large numbers of immigrant families in each country . but increasing immigrant workers will not necessarily raise fertility rates . an aging population is contributing to europe 's poor economic performance . germany , for example , has a large population of guest workers , but few settle there with its families ; most leave their children in their homeland .
of course , there were no consequences whatsoever on cheney . the real culprits at these firms ’ summit rarely need to be worried . impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes go un-noted . the few that are noted typically end with a slap on the wrist , with the company , meaning its shareholders – picking a modest fine . the news has barely made ripple in the american media .
for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestors – were living in small groups in which violence could be inflicted only in an up-close and personal manner , by hitting , pushing , strangling , or using a stick or stone as a club . greene found that people asked to make moral judgment about “ personal ” violations , like pushing an outsider off the footbridge , and showing increased activity in brain areas associated with emotions . moreover , a minority of subjects who considered it right to push an outsider off footbridge took longer to reach that judgment than those who said that doing so would be wrong . this was not the case for people asked to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations like throwing a switch . why would our judgments and our emotions vary ?
in 1949 , britain found itself in the same position , with a trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling was again devalued , as it had been 18 years earlier , by 30 % . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , followed by other partners . investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude . political uncertainty is high , and there is little prospect for a general election to resolve it anytime soon .
once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and actions . indeed , power led refah to compromise , rather than the extremes . turkey continued to allow u.s.-led " operation provide comfort " against iraq to exploit turkish bases . relations with israel did indeed improve with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before -- a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah . it remained a vital member of nato , and it remained a vital member of nato .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren of the profession , a play whose title character is the proprietor of a few brothels . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of the business of prostitution from feminist standpoint . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theater “ club , ” ostensibly confined to its members . its performance in new york in 1905 raided the police . the play is not salacious , and it contains no coarse language , but it was nonetheless eight years before it could be staged .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis portends an end to profound economic , political , and social ramifications . every year , some 13 million young people look to work in africa , but only about three million of them find jobs . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s schools and universities are failing to produce enough graduates with the technical skills to succeed in tomorrow ’s workplace . but the crisis can be averted , and one solution may be as simple as turning on the lights . although the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs within ten years through its youth jobs at the african initiative , it is not at all immediately clear where these opportunities will come from .
now the plans are afoot to “ promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw , where palestinians are not attending . refusing to mention the two-state solution , trump ’s statements ’s team go a other way , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever accept this design , as was made clear in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let the us be clear : the two-state solution does not mean accommodating the illegal reality of israeli settlements ; rather , it implies an end to this colonial enterprise . they failed to calculate that the palestinian people have dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , and will insist that they
sanders is no different than many other american jews in this respect . he certainly never embraced israel as a political cause , as many other american jewish politicians have . in any case , it is not as if avoiding talk about israel is a departure for sanders . nor does israel seem to figure much in its own jewish identity , which is more attuned to the memory of the holocaust than anything else . despite having commented on the matter where necessary , it has generally not been outdone on sanders ’s issues .
king salman embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and expressed support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nothing was said of human rights , much less of women ’s rights , and the word “ democracy ” never passed trump ’s lips . instead , trump completed a deal to provide $ 110 billion in advanced arms to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy . the agreement appears to have become the foundation of a wonderful new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the american people ’s chief business is business .
a japanese investor who held dollar equities or real estate could instead compensate for the loss of exchange rates by buying yen futures . the same is true of an euro-based investor that would not earn by holding gold but could compensate for the dollar ’s decline by buying euro futures . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge against inflation and exchange-rate risk . because gold accounted for $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold did nothing to offset the fall in the value of the dollar . tips , or their equivalent of other governments , provide safe inflation hedges , and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china has pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the dollar , every weakening of the dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis has also meant a weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other global currencies . the united states is now taking drastic steps against china , and is creating provisions for a trade war . but is china really supposed to blame for the eruption of a global currency war ? south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , the imf , and many other countries are now buying dollars to protect their own currencies against the revaluation , and thus to defend their exports . europe has also become nervous after the euro ’s exchange rate rose to over $ 1.40 , far beyond purchasing power parity ( ppp ) exchange rates of $ 1.17 .
but while these sources can provide valuable insights , they fail to meet the standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which an informed public conversation should be based . for these reasons , researchers , media , and civil-society organizations need to become more engaged . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods to capture income and wealth gaps . government statistical agencies should publish the top 1 % of income and wealth , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the effective taxes that these groups pay . to that end , a particularly important milestone will come with revision , due in the next three years , by the united nations ’ national account system .
moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton could have told them , is fearsomely complicated . eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the government slightly more than $ 100 billion per year , about 3 % of federal spending . but those subsidies are largely paid for their own dedicated taxes . there is growing recognition that the name will change ( “ trumpcare , ” anyone ? ” ? ) , and perhaps the republican plan will cover fewer people ; but much of it will remain the same .
during cardoso 's tenure , he privatized telecoms , a national mining company , and part of the electric sector . inflation fell , but unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all rose sharply . social inequalities heightened , and brazil last year suffered blackouts and electricity rationing . from the start of the campaign , lula showed strength , especially after the favored candidate , roseana sarney , crashed and burned when the federal police and prosecutors discovered a cash load in her husband 's office . mr. sarney was eventually absolved of all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy .
( for all of these interventions , figures are likely to be somewhat smaller , because the charity impact calculator is not designed for such large amounts , and so does not account for that costs to rise as soon as the needs of those who are easiest to reach them have been met . ) in thinking that humans receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent assessment has shown that they do not . give directly ’s cash transfers increases recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets . when a person chooses to buy “ salvator mundi ” rather than restore sight to nine million people , what is said about their values ? for $ 450 million , you could also purchase 180 million bed nets , enough to protect 271 million people from malaria .
to start , you can simply set your price on , say , $ 1 , alongside a list of people who can reach you for free . the recipient is unlikely to see the complexities ; most of this will be dealt with in the background . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as fewer mail sends , a higher proportion want and respond . mail managers will also handle incoming messages , as well as facebook , linkedin , and other requests as the recipient , and collect the credit card from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts , or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . there will be lots of glitches early , starting with those you know who have multiple email addresses , old friends not on your current white list of free senders , and so on .
in business and immigration , for example , bannon has acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing the former self is another story ) . bannon has reinforced the nationalist inclination , which has led trump to overrule his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon has intruded on foreign policy by getting himself on the national security council for some time , until two of trump ’s generals – national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now chief of staff ) – got him removed . it was a mistake to view bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , as trump ’s white house rasputin . ( bannon was believed to be behind the recent push to force out mcmaster , mainly by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ”
no country ’s taxpayers wanted to feel that they were paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . meanwhile , demand in most of europe is weak , ruling out the economic growth needed to repay debts , and offering hope to the world ’s 25 million unemployed . they mistrust each other too much to collaborate . parochial suspicion has been the main impediment to grand solutions . so creditor countries , led by germany , have sought to do the bare minimum needed to keep the euro alive , while debtors have grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by around 20 % relative to the eurozone average , and by about 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore external-debt sustainability . the french economy , in turn , is suffering because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . the ecb and the international community – in particular the international monetary fund – have tried to cope with the crisis by replacing a dearth of private capital with public credit . the cheap credit ushered in the european fed ’s inflationary economic bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . credit terms deteriorated abruptly , leaving the thoroughly overpriced economies dependent on foreign financing .
of course , encyclopedias are never intended to be read cover for cover . the same happens , even reading philosophy , say husserl . the author opens at a fist page and follows a set of questions to see how he reaches his conclusions . if i want to know whether napoleon met kant , i pick up volumes of k and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 , and he died in 1804 . it is possible that both met .
from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating economic logic . from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating economic logic . but our emotions are our algorithms , bequeathed by evolution , by which we make most decisions , including political ones ; economic cost-benefit analysis that does not connect to our emotional compass does not move the needle . what does it mean to be a member of the eu , nigeria , iraq , turkey , singapore , or any other political entity ? letting them in might produce a better team , but it would no longer be our team .
islam and democracy are frequently presumed to be bitter antagonists . yet a careful study of 47 muslim-majority states in the world shows that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . that conclusion stems from the comparison of muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not the islam that seems to loggerheads with democracy . if a government sprang from reasonably fair elections and an elected government manages to fill its leading political offices , the country is perceived as “ electorally competitive . ”
understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the right paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn influences technology ’s potential application and diffusion . thirty-five years ago , america ’s national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering , ” the techniques . ( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . ) other researchers noted that the organism really is only “ semi-synthetic , ” because the synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) was introduced into a normal , or non-synthetic , bacterium . ( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . )
paris – with weak demand in advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of income convergence has come to an end . that process began in the late 1980 ’s , and continues unabated , with the exception of the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . nothing could be further from the truth . the pace of convergence accelerated further during and just the aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 : the aggregate average differential in per capita income growth accelerated to more than four percentage points in the 2008-2012 period , from slightly more than two percentage points in the two decades prior to . as i argued before , convergence in emerging countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ real average incomes , in the aggregate , with advanced-economy incomes , is likely to continue in 2020 .
labour has sought to avoid a constitutional debate , because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party of over-representation in the uk parliament . it is unfair to give ever more power to a scottish parliament , while continuing labour , which controls 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionate say over what happens in england . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its belief in a country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any discussion about how that union can be modernized . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling in france , we must change the way we govern ourselves . this belief has suited both major political parties in the past .
this means reaching out to public figures to request on-the-record fixes , lodging complaints with norms bodies , and offering training to media organizations . it also means working with tech firms to find ways to prevent the wider circulation of misinformation , including across international borders . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should focus not simply on tackling false information , but also on identifying sources of sound information and pointing their readers and followers to them . this is the approach that us organizations have adopted , and , as small and under-resourced as they are , the impact is already apparent . and we should work with our schools and other educational platforms to help teach people to identify fake or misleading claims .
london – one of today ’s most dispassionate features of international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons – and by those who would build more of them , or be too willing to use them alone , have been consigned to the margin of politics . it would take a brave gambler to bet on the ratification of the american senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty ( npt ) any time soon . us president barack obama captured global attention with his 2009 prague meeting , making a compelling case for a nuclear-armed world . and he delivered on the major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion . yet nuclear issues continue to struggle for public resonance and political traction .
it seems self-evident that a developed economy requires adequate , ongoing investment in public goods . but the state of infrastructure in the us suggests that many decision-makers do not share this view . a 2013 report by the american society of civic engineers gave the american society a pathetic total grade of d + for its infrastructure . the report concludes that an investment of $ 3.6 trillion ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed by 2020 to boost the quality of america ’s infrastructure by tackling a “ significant backlog of overdue maintenance [ and ] pressing needs for modernization . ” the report cited numerous state-specific shortcomings , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems ” in california .
governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to see prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . whatever is not suppressed is effectively unregulated , with the exception of criminal organizations . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to see prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . a second myth presumes that prohibition reduces harm associated with drugs . global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products essentially resemble other global commodities markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that the drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand .
as it stands , however , we have “ fished down ” our stockpiles , until few large old individuals remain . this is for the best of the reasons – a fish caught when they are too small will produce a modest yield . moreover , fish will not have a chance to reproduce , undermining fish stocks altogether . for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ protecting fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken from sea by allowing young fish to reproduce , and by ensuring that action is respected . ” to see this , consider north sea of cod .
with the russian economy stagnant , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and typically 86 % – support him on everything from annexing crimea to his latest term as president . but putin ’s ambitions as the post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration for reality . the truth about what people genuinely feel remains impossible to know .
yet this vulnerability was largely created , or at least accommodated , by western banks . funding from the parent banks that in the earlier stages of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to east european banking systems now appears more like a liability and a possible source of contagion . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home rule , ” were supposedly discouraging such excesses . but it was probably in hungary , a first country to seek an imf package , that such practices were most widespread . foreign bank penetration also effectively deprived countries in central and eastern europe of monetary policy instruments , leaving them with little control over ultra-low credit growth .
add to this the mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , stir in large and growing cohorts of unemployed and digitally connected youth , and the continent offers the ideal terms of mayhem . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments responded to violent extremism primarily by putting “ hard ” security first . but this strategy has not reduced extremist groups ’ potency or constrained their reach . in fact , there is evidence that an exclusive military response can be a waste of resources or even do more harm than good . what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges .
moreover , wherever health-care costs are paid to everyone – including the us , with its public health-care programs for the poor and elderly , everyone is paying the cost of efforts to treat drug-resistant illnesses caused by cigarettes . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would doubtless generate a new revenue source for organized crime . but , curiously , it seems odd to hold that the state may prohibit the sale of a product , but may not permit it to be sold only in the packs that carry graphic images of harm it causes to human health . the tobacco industry will now take its battle against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization . the industry fears that the law could be copied in much larger markets , like india and china .
climate change policies are not the best way to reduce the effects of weather disasters . during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , which has invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks , suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which has not been prepared , some 2,000 lives have been lost . the united nations framework convention has refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how the disasters they feared have been linked to climate change . according to a recent rand study , the united nations ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ funding for disaster loss-reduction research in 2003 amounted to roughly $ 127 million – just 7 % of its funding for this year .
above all , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to bring more women into the labor force ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to target corruption . the g-20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge for the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emission target into formal g-20 support for “ strong and effective action to address climate change . ” other formal outcomes at the g20 meeting were agreements , backed by more policy detail than most commentators predicted – to stimulate global growth . ( all of this dismayed australia ’s conservative host government , which has struggled to prevent the issue even before ; the australian public , however , was delighted , and promptly knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for that , and other embarrassments . )
many of those who voted for macron may have hoped for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . if you want to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such a magisterial setting as versailles is certain to prove effective . but now they may be thinking more about louis xvi , a king who has paid with his life for his predecessors ’ faults . but reveling in a country in a monarchical history can be dangerous . can macron learn from his mistakes and regain the confidence of french voters , who feel humiliated by him ?
for many , the global economic summit held in london in april 2009 marks the point when the american economy turned the corner . and that is what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on a large part of the american federal reserve . so notable was the fact that many policymakers fell into the trap of projecting a rapidly growing rebound , particularly given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only to be humbled by what has proven to be a protracted and complex process of recovery . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and they did , culminating in one of history ’s most successful periods of global policy coordination involving both advanced and emerging economies .
the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of the real-estate bubble . the stock market fell by almost 50 % from its 2007 peak , and remains down by almost a third . the fear feeds on itself , and the prediction that stocks lose value becomes self-fulfilling . this enormous loss of wealth caused a large and persistent drop in consumption demand , causing unemployment to increase . housing wealth in the us has fallen by 34 % since its peak in 2006 , and continues to decline .
that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling for solutions . the free and healthy news media are vital to a well-functioning democracy . as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . if we are to protect the latter , we must defend former at all costs . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , has not bought the las vegas review-journal or captured the israeli media for cash .
the political camps of the old left and the right are back . until now , merkel has had to deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . this will change very rapidly , particularly given the possibility of nato ’s troop increases in afghanistan . from now on , she will require a trait that she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making skills . black and yellow ’s victory has , moreover , defined the alternative : red and dark red and greens .
instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encourage reliance on public transportation , and make our streets pleasant and secure to walking ( especially for women and the disabilities ) . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investment in renewable sources ( which , one hopes , will create jobs in the process ) . we can also stimulate households to consume less energy , with companies reducing the amount of energy that they waste . the fourth challenge is to change how we produce , transportation , and consume energy . fifth , we need to reform how we manage water resources and water infrastructure to re-use this precious resource , and on a city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . he has surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office after his right-wing likud party won a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . but the celebration is likely to be short on that . how netanyahu finagled that outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine and a pledging to continue the construction of settlements on occupied land – will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic implications for israel . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling the palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
simply trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . an early test of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees up to nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female fighter pilot . of course , i hope that the new deal will last , finally bringing peace to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as russia ’s automatic eviction from the swift financial transfers system should it renege on any aspect of the deal . savchenko has spent more than two months on a hunger strike in russia to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more than those for whom i was imprisoned .
thanks to a research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized data donation to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some light on this mystery . in ongoing work with dany bahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke , we have been in a position to establish some interesting stylized facts . more populous countries have more business travel in both directions , but the volume is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more people than another has only about 70 % more business travel . before anyone begins slashing travel budgets , let ’s try to understand why we need to move people rather than information . why waste precious time in the air , security checks , and waiting for our luggage ?
too many italians shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and failings , figuring that he would soon go away , having done little harm . but he did plenty of harm . the us can not afford to make the same mistake . the price of liberty , americans fond of saying , is eternal vigilance . there can be no discount in confronting trump .
specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval of a set of “ realistic ” ” ” ” practices to reduce red tape perceived to be hampering investment in extractive industries – the very industries on which the economy should become less dependent . a new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , establish environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental mental-impact assessments . and , though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all but wrong . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as “ climate champion ” – an image that some government members are attempting to cultivate – the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . the peruvian government now has a serious problem .
when pundits weigh on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , the relative newness of their hard-won freedoms and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether homegrown dictatorship or colonial rule , implies individual liberty . ( still less do they notice the role that women ’s empowerment and feminism played in development . ) fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests is putting at risk what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy . the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , who was herself imprisoned and tortured under the military regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake .
how , then , can nato help with this ? no romanian government can neglect these standards . directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do a lot . the eu is now a military-political alliance that sets democratic standards on new members and aspirants . nato is no longer just a military alliance ; it is not only a military alliance .
but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition leader , juan guaidó , as interim head of state after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . in terms of many political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey . a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons , effectively a mob – that bought the military ’s loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . the mob ’s opponents are being repressed , often brutally .
but , so far , efforts to lower financing costs have had a limited impact . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial firms remains near 7 % , while economic growth has edged down from 7.4 % a year on year in the last three months , to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the pboc now faces a dilemma . the situation may not be dire yet , but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . if it loosens monetary policy further , by , say , slashing banks ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ reserve-currency requirement ratio – momentum for restructuring could disappear ; and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity will flow into the real sector .
drafted with un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . while such an approach would certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . instead of closing doors , such a redefinition of the un statehood bid would give the palestinian leadership a much-needed symbolic success , including a framework from which to restart negotiations – a longstanding palestinian request . it would also address indirectly the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ”
the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in the fields of robotics . given that ongoing manufacturing changes have already kick-started this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have suggested that robots are taxed to pay for human services . whether this is the best solution is now a topic of much debate ; but , clearly , some kind of compromise will have to happen . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue than on taxation . robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , especially with respect to privacy and security .
heraclitus ’s warning against bathing in the same sea twice is lost on our economic ministers , who insist on bathing regularly in the contaminated waters . so goes the refrain in the famous argentine song . but , in argentina , things stays the same , or become worse . “ everything . everything . ” whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raising concerns over what happens if argentina is paying back its foreign debt and then inevitably paying back its debt under severe pressure from the international monetary fund and the us .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes more fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are crucial to addressing the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely have our existing institutions , including , most recently , the united nations , been frailer . while the un still has many strengths , it also has a clear sense of structural weaknesses . we ’ve seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging crisis in humanitarian-aid funding . the un is not broken , but it is in trouble , especially as more countries treat it as a polite diplomatic afterthought , and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere .
mass action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative based on a loose global plan . in ninety days , these organizers turned out more than five million protestors worldwide . the decision to launch february 15 as a day of mass protest seemed to be taking place at a meeting of activists at the european social forum in florence in november last year . the internet enabled for rapid dissemination of organizational plans worldwide , at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . there are three keys to this phenomenon :
how better to memorialize that decision than with a housing boom ? according to the american south command spokesman who oversees gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned , because they trusted obama ’s pledge to close gitmo . indeed , they are being cleared to leave , with only obama ’s failure to keep his promise – and the american congress party ’s failure to legislate their transfers , which keeps them there . the new facility for which the money is to be earmarked will house 106 prisoners ( the precise number is uncertain ) who were neither tried nor charged . eight inmates are now entering the second month of hunger .
it is important to note that these choices are not just china ’s ; the world also has decisions to make . for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that strengthen dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits from increased ( and other ) china are shared broadly . flows of technology and innovation : increased technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would foster the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; decreased flows would undermine global productivity . the world can also decide how to facilitate more or fewer flows of technologies that are increasingly subject to safety reviews . according to our simulation , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on the extent to which technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth .
to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in 2007 , technical considerations make exiting the eurozone difficult , expensive , and dangerous . it is hard for me to believe that if greece had abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even a quarter of that . but that is just one side of the ledger . whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland , which is not in the eurozone , has essentially recovered . using iceland as our measuring stick , the cost to greece of not exiting the eurozone is equivalent to 75 % of gdp – and counting .
there is only one way to explain the american administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage with iran during his first term in office . in this , obama is following the example of president george w. bush , who let america ’s electoral agenda rather than american – not to mention the iraqi – national interests dictate iraq ’s policy . last march , as rumors circulated that he lost the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be at risk if he lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he lost , he demanded a recount , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as supreme commander-in-chief . maliki ’s fact that , despite his incumbency , has been unable to secure a second term seven months after elections attests to widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s political class .
the signal , in this case , of the promise to balance the books , creates reality . when one believes the narrative , one behaves in ways that make it come true . people start behaving like the books , ignoring them . in fact , i do not believe that osborne himself ever attached importance to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . in his emphasis on the signal ’s importance , economics enters a postmodernist territory .
this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria . but it , too , is a moment of opportunity . for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years , to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains . our focus now is on completing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . in response to a dwindling donor funding , ghanaian government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which currently is working to fill urgent funding gaps , but will ultimately help to lead a sustainable , indigenous effort to eliminate malaria from the country .
if sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds are planning to treat them like second-class citizens , they will have little stake in maliki ’s government ’s success , and could begin to pursue their own political interests by other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon ’s example . otherwise , a country ’s diverse interest groups might , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , turn to outsiders to negotiate solutions to their problems . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army that operates in the shadow of large shia-dominated militant organization . making matters worse , factional conflict would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity .
trumponomics seems likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead . that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should be let off the hook for unfair practices . but it does imply limited hope for resolving seemingly chronic trade deficits and the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to such imbalances – as long as the us does not start saving again . the us had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 , a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” alas , that plot is about to thicken , and it is about .
throughout the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th is viewed as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated the armies of three arab countries by its conquest of the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just six days . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and others are now preoccupied with defending the same old totalitarian mindset . their tactic has been to obstruct a clear review of the iraq catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to endorsing the american occupation of iraq . arab intellectuals , and indeed the broader arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraq earthquake . for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now a columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-ra ’s i.
given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital signifies gross resource misallocation . in principle , a country can run a current-account deficit or surplus continuously for decades . but china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic . and , while the recovery in the advanced economies has boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than it did in 2012 , has caused investment to rise , albeit still rapid , to decline , to its lowest pace in the last 11 years . meanwhile , the lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) may be the result of its increased investment-income deficit .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainability organization global footprint network , humanity will use the earth ’s resource budget every year . that the “ earth overshoot day ” has moved forward by an astonishing two months over the last 20 years , and by 2019 it will arrive earlier than ever . although humanity ’s increasing environmental impact manifests itself in a variety of ways , climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting effects . carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
a semblance of political legitimacy , particularly among a educated middle class , was bought with the promise of greater wealth . an economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left by the one-party state . few people , even the members of the party , still believe in marxism-leninism , much less maoism . and popular discontent with official corruption and political oppression amply demonstrated in all regions of china in 1989 . the communist government managed to remain in power after tiananmen not only through brute force .
but , given pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . the world ’s top 20 cities , 75 % of them in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new housing units by 2025 . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing , or struggled financially because of the cost of housing ; that number is projected to climb to $ 440 million by 2025 . even in advanced economies like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue in emerging countries .
berkeley – one need not be particularly good at the hearing to decipher the dog whistles being exploited during this year ’s ’s election campaign in the united states . all of this fear mongering is scarier than ordinary election-year fare . and it is frightening to americans , who until recently believed – or perhaps hoped – that they were living in a republic based on the tradition established by george washington , abraham lincoln and teddy and franklin roosevelt . it is terrifying to people in foreign countries that can conclude only that voters in the world ’s only superpower have become dangerously out . and it is frightening to americans , who until recently believed – or perhaps hoped – that they are living in a republic based on the tradition established by george washington , abraham lincoln and teddy and franklin roosevelt .
professor nicola rossi , economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the wish that we give “ less fathers and more to our sons . ” put in these terms , the problem is always resolved by giving more to those with the most political power . but if unions are powerful or seniors are in the majority ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all labor unions ) , the exact opposite happens . italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the pensions nor the issue of fiscal reform , demonstrates this fully . here is italy ’s spectacular delusion .
beyond these figures , there are children and youth being denied not only a right , but opportunities : a fair chance of getting a decent job , fleeing poverty , supporting their families , and developing their communities . oslo – education is a human right ; it is a people right . and , like other human rights , it can not be taken for granted . across the world , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school . more than 120 million children do not complete primary education ; they are a poor child .
but africa ’s farmers encounter major barriers to achieving their potential . on average , they apply less than 10 kilograms of fertilizer per hectare , compared to 140 kilograms in india . small farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . and agriculture has driven gdp growth more than twice as effective in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors . moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely exploited .
are the risks so high that they justify the suffering that might have been avoided ? clearly , most eu governments are not . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? gm foods have now been on the global market in more than 12 years . the question is whether decision-makers are poised to exploit them .
to be sure , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such insatiable appetite for debt . but policy-induced distortions are also playing an enormous role . imperfect information and difficulty monitoring firms pose significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-quarters are in some kind of debt instrument , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and us government securities . the derivatives market surely helps to spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the underlying point stands .
moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given constrained lending by its banks . whereas italy has received some € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have invested € 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and have signed agreements on bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . but there are several compelling reasons why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy toward china . for starters , italy ’s interests may not be aligned . italy ’s exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) per year , while imports are roughly € 29 billion .
to be sure , many latin american leaders in recent decades have risen to power on the promise of leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have delivered some short-term benefits , particularly to the poor . but , such measures have often been plagued by populism , and ultimately do more harm than good . after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , the public ’s patience has worn thin . relying on commodity revenues to fund their social programs , these leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve economic fundamentals .
his eloquent resignation letter made it clear that he objected not just to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and opponents ; his willingness to abandon friends , such as the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , such as nato . mattis ’s friends explained in television interviews that what most troubled the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual might no longer have influenced policy , but also that his remaining within the cabinet has been taken as an affirmation of trump , a position he can no longer bear . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . members of congress have expressed outright fear of the trump presidency with no guardrails . even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued a seminal afternoon declaration that he was “ aggrieved ” by mattis ’s departure ( a significant sign , many believe , mcconnell ’s private worry , for trump ’s effect on the republican party . )
visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effect of hurting international business in china . but china ’s priority is not just to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to spur growth while protecting its monopoly on power . the government has strengthened its security system and engaged in a ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras . the regime is set on proving the world that china , once again , can stage spectacular performance , and that its voice will be heeded .
he will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or internationalist right-leaning one . at a time of steady economic disruption , this will be all the more important . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strong internationalist bent . only one of those , it seems , seems to be a tenable option . if globalization , on its various dimensions , is to be backed by a popular majority , it will have to be accompanied by modernized social policies that provide effective assistance to those who need it .
but there is an alternative that could help to appease angry citizens and mitigate the loss of revenue from an outright ban on smoking : electronic cigarettes . given that e-cigarettes merely heat a nicotine solution to produce inhalable vapor , release none of the cigarette smoke carcinogenic tar , making them ideally ine-delivery systems for smokers seeking – or being forced – to reduce or halt their tobacco intake . as yanzhong huang of the foreign relations council recently pointed out , if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes , that would mean a market of about 3.5 million e-cigarette users . but , despite considerable progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 us manufacturers , up 200 % since 2012 , and accounted for over 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product invented in china in 2003 .
agreeing to quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is straightforward . but countries automatically regard adherence to those targets as a sacrifice : in the effort to cut emissions by x tons , we would lose y million jobs , and gdp would fall by $ z trillion . because there are no actual sanctions or punishment for non-compliance when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their thinking . even when a government tries to fend off its commitments on , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it may not obtain the desired outcomes . the reason the un ’s climate conferences continue to fail is straightforward : their agendas , centered on voluntary , quantitative targets , are fundamentally flawed .
this would give chinese smartphone companies an opportunity to seize market share from the major players . today , 80 % of global trade comprises international supply chains ; today , that figure is just over . while china provides just 4 % of the value added , it supplies core components to apple at low prices . declining trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their manufacturing lines geographically , with goods processed and value-added in multiple countries along the chain . apple can not build an iphone from scratch , so it would have to search for alternative suppliers , driving up its manufacturing costs considerably .
third , a higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . in firms with a high ceo pay slice , the probability of ceo turnover after bad performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s length ) is lower . financial economists view such luck-based compensation as a sign of governance problems . the lower sensitivity of turnover to performance reflects less willingness on a part of directors to discipline a ceo . finally , firms with higher ceo pay slice are more likely to provide their ceo with option grants that turn out to be opportunistically timed .
there is only one europe , despite its diversity , that is a living society . if europe is to become one if the european union is to take in the new postcommunist democracies - which is in everyone 's interest - several vital tasks must be undertaken , within the new democracies , as well as within the european and atlantic communities . to start , europe must foster communities in the postcommunist countries by rebuilding civil society . there is only one europe , despite its diversity , that is . any weighty occurrence provokes repercussions across the continent .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement does not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach merely does prolong the conflict . the sooner the west convinces russia ’s ’s ’s leaders that it will not back down , the sooner the conflict ends . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in their policy toward russia . this approach offers the best chance of bringing the current confrontation to an end , and compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia must earn back on the trust it has broken , demonstrating its commitment to abide by the treaties and international norms of the behavior that it has agreed .
today , greece ’s european creditors seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on picking some of the crumbs from the country ’s pensioners . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo increased market pressures . but we are running risks of one-tenth of the time … . nine times out of ten , nothing really serious will happen – merely slightly distress to individuals or groups . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit , the world will never again trust europe ’s longevity .
it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or a gerontocracy in which age leads one to the top , or even an aristocracy , in which what counts as inherited titles and properties . so meritocracy seems preferable , at least in the first sight . for many , france has long been the epitome of a meritocracy . but , on closer inspection , matters are not so simple . most of those in the top reaches of not only the civil-service and judiciary , but also politics , business , and academia have used to be graduates of the famous grandes écoles .
most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . but in america , more is spent on educating wealthy students than on educating the poor . at america ’s most elite universities , for example , just around 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the us population , while 74 % come from the top quarter . as a result , america is wasting some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – bereft of skill – turning to dysfunctional activities . some countries have even imposed a constitutional mandate for equality of educational opportunity .
even if sudan ’s military leaders succumb to au pressure , however , political stability is far from guaranteed . the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless they transfer power to civilian authority . for decades , le pouvoir has used oil revenues to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but these reserves have been concentrated in the south , and thus disappeared when south sudan seceded in 2011 . and now , political stability is gone .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is a daunting one , particularly given constraints on key resources like water and farmland . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses , which use artificial light to grow crops – can yield large savings , which could then pass along to consumers . but questions about such farm farming ’ fundamental economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and the global food supply are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . now , a third solution is emerging : vertical farming .
still , we need to confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems , and our national budgets , must be based on `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risk spreads systematically across generations . what this means is that our pension and tax institutions must be designed to take better account of the changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than make fixed promises -- which most likely can not be kept , anyway -- of some paypal in the future . what it does mean is that the problem is political . pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue .
but any gains from lower taxes more than offset the losses to the private sector , which , facing higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn lowering economic growth – and thus reducing government revenues . this can only aggravate europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects . lower financing costs for public debt appear to be a net gain to society , because the government then saves money and can keep taxes lower . many steps in recent years have been taken to reinforce regulation of the banking system . but what is proposed now will make lending to investment even less appealing , increasing incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector .
the plo has succeeded in obtaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . when palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that the american people would support such a statehood declaration if talks failed , mitchell has responded that such a commitment would make negotiations pointless . the only obstacle remaining to palestinian leaders is the american people . instead , the americans have their own ideas about how to achieve a breakthrough , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is now a major obstacle . to effect change in israel , the americans are launching various trial balloons .
these old tensions assumed new dimensions as human tissue ’s commercial potential catches the entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are in place to address the uses of cells , tissues , and genes . the most well known case concerning the body as property is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy ’s cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at moore ’s ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician , patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent , set the contracts , and sold the rights of the swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from the “ mo ” cell lines . the commercial calculus behind this business sometimes produced riots until anatomy laws allowed the bodies of executed murderers and the unclaimed dead to be used , thus reassuring middle and upper class individuals that their bodies would not .
but the germans , undaunted by it all , simply keep celebrating a single great soccer party with its newfound friends from all over the world . in berlin , as in other large german cities , taxis sport flags of their drivers ’ home countries – from angola to saudi arabia – sport themselves . fans don not only their nations ’ own flags , but also the fantastic costumes evocative of their home countries ’ home countries ’ colors . in fact , the flags of many nations fly alongside german . the black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns the entire country as never before , but almost nowhere are nationalist undertones .
thisharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , a failed state , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national staple immunization coverage has fallen below 30 % . meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to rise . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in only 100 days . to prevent the ebola outbreak from escalating further , relevant actors – from health workers to government officials – must step back to affected communities , winning back on their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has shown , this is entirely achievable .
when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant , or royalties on natural resources are stolen at the source , or the private sector is monopolized by a narrow network of cronies , populations are unable to realize their potential . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with representatives from business and civil-society groups – will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . for starters , corruption cripples prospects for development . corruption is decried across cultures and across history . it has existed as long as government has ; but , like other crimes , it has grown increasingly sophisticated over the last few decades , with the devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens .
but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to backtrack on an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled by a new grievances . the protests began when the government tried to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra – yingluck ’s brother and ptp ’s founder , overthrown by the military in 2006 – on corruption charges and abuses of power . ( it also would have superseded the murder charges brought against the democratic party ’s leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) yingluck ’s government refused to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to change the senate from a half-appointed to a fully elected chamber .
eu member states are more divided than ever , even on the most fundamental issues concerning the european project . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been superseded by resurgent nationalism . if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest group in the european parliament , these appointments could represent an abrupt break from the past . moreover , east is increasingly pittsburgh against the west and north against the south . new presidents from the european commission , the european council , and the european central bank will be appointed , along with a new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization have often urge developing countries to invest in national health systems . but while rushing to construct clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage , that has not turned out to be true . in my frequent visits to rural areas of my native sierra leone , i have seen more than a few health facilities that communities could have done without . west africa ’s recent ebola epidemic has highlighted the urgent need for stronger , better , and more resilient health-care systems in developing countries . but when countries rush to build more clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage , which has not turned true .
to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . wilson , for example , would probably concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a multilateral process dominated by democracies . likewise , he would probably advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the wealthiest companies and households financing , say , infrastructure development , quality education , and universal health care . indeed , it is problematic that american banks and firms can export capital , technology , and jobs , with little or no regard for domestic costs .
when i announced englishnization , just 10 % of us labor was proficient in english . unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , especially those outside the firm , thought that i was a bit mad . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are looking for our advice in how to build a global brand headquartered in japanese capital . but , in march 2010 , in a move that i believe was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” ” a plan to make english our corporate language within two years . the goal was to lay the groundwork for global expansion in an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent .
but that would only further weaken the bank ’s credit portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to strengthen them . europe ’s second vicious spiral is running from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . the ecb ’s decision to provide banks with unlimited liquidity does not resolve governments ’ debt problems , nor is its intent . tax increases and public-spending cuts are still needed ; they are not avoiding that reality . but it is at least impeding the debt problem from creating a banking problem that , in turn , worsens the already-depressed debt problem .
indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , technicians and medical professionals . this sterility and inertia are making europeans less and less interesting for americans . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy are contributing to the development of 60 % of the world ’s new drugs in the us , compared to 40 % only ten years ago . so american eyes are turning elsewhere : to china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % , a year in and year out , and to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth . add to that a recipe for economics as much as it has .
but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have been pitted directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , oil drillers , hunts , and other interlopers . when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people died across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes , relying on traditional warning systems , suffered no well-known casualties . with their reconsideration of – and understanding – nature , such groups serve as the world ’s environmental sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but they are likely to die a lot faster if we suddenly come together , bringing with america ’s modern pathogens against which they have no antibodies . these tribes might be isolated , but their demise would have profound consequences .
but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainty resulting from globalization . in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others the entry of poland and hungary into the euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand the eagerness and hope of their peoples at that momentous time . that is why it is so difficult for me to comprehend their position today . of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was largely usurped by the soviet union , are particularly susceptible to external efforts to shape their decision-making and have a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries do .
it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the well-being of all . today , many of the benefits to humanity depend on seas from the pacific to indian oceans remain fully open . but what , exactly , does that mean ? no particular country or group has created international maritime law , as it now exists . if we distill the spirit that we infused into international law over the ages , and reformulate it as three principles , the rule of law at sea becomes a matter of common sense .
armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool , for example , are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . moreover , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence , such as forced pregnancies . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help predict and avert its use . when perpetrators of sexual violence are challenged in high-profile settings such as the un , it becomes difficult for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . to be sure , effective solutions must consider the local context .
but europe can succeed in this task only if its various constituent cultures do not seal themselves off from one another . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward to convey . a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed to respect the history , culture , and traditions of all their constituent peoples . a draft constitution that recently failed to gain acceptance in the first round of negotiations not only promises to respect cultural hegemony ; it obliges the union to actively protect , sustain , and develop the wealth of europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . because an enlarged union will become a reality in just two months , it is imperative to develop concepts for cultural understanding that contribute to the successful integration of the new members .
if successfully implemented , this agenda is likely to reverse the global savings and consumption patterns that have underpinned large imbalances in recent years . to be sure , the global saving and consumption patterns since the financial crisis , with both the west and china attempting to restore internal equilibrium , have undergone significant change . doubling average household income by 2020 – a target set by the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november – is likely to release $ 64 trillion of renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s enormous domestic market gradually becoming a new , long-term driver of domestic and international growth . china is responsible for the savings-side , while the us disproportionately accounts for the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditors . this model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital , rather than simply relying on foreign investment .
when women break through to the corporate power summit – as sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception to the rule . i do n’t like quotas , either ; they run counter to my belief in a meritocracy . but when one considers the obstacles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , one does look as if a fairer world must be temporarily mandated . after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that corporations in europe as well as the american people are evading women ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion into top positions , no matter how much “ soft pressure ” is placed upon them . i understand reding ’s reticence – and her frustration with her .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india in ’s last parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was not a professional politician ; i was a former president ; i was not a people . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i entered a race without a political “ godfather . ” by contrast , all of the other candidates in my constituency – indeed , most contenders across the country – devoted their entire lives to politics , many since their student days . i had not even lived in india for decades , having spent my adult life working abroad for the united nations .
even without a jamaica coalition , however , germany still has a stable , liberal majority in the bundestag . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state is now a “ 50-50 society ” ” “ 50-50 societies ” : half of the cosmopolitan , half communitarian . in these countries , a government at any given time represents whichever side has won the latest round in an ongoing culture war . the fdp has abandoned the talks from frustration that , as its leader , christian lindner , put it , “ four discussion partners have neither a common vision for modernization nor a common basis of trust . ” but , ultimately , the experiment has failed .
for starters , all countries need to define the crime of online child trafficking , and incorporate it into their national penal code , alongside tough penalties for violators . all hiring activities , advertising , and financial transactions associated with online child trafficking should also be criminalized . parents must build bridges of trust in order to make their children feel open to solving their problems . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers to this respect . raising awareness about the issue is also crucial – especially in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and lack of age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable .
these reforms are crucial to improving guyana ’s young people ’s life prospects . if more teenagers had access to sexual education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives interrupted by pregnancy . special attention must be devoted to rural regions , and to people with special needs , an often-overlooked youth-population segment . moreover , communities need to increase access to sexual education and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . these spaces should be open after school , and on weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults .
but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , independent work is likely to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of working-age people would prefer to earn an income , whether primary or secondary , from independent work . many are low-income workers , who would otherwise be unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and , thus , employment – growth would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent work . while digital platforms for independent work are still in their early stages of their development , with only 15 % of freelance workers , they are proliferating and expanding rapidly .
in this they were realists , but they demanded a measure of civic control over the authorities , both in the political and economic sphere . the demand for the abolition of censorship was one of the polish political slogans of march ‘ 68 . demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize themselves . crucially , protesters failed to demand free elections . one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ”
new haven – in what could well be the ultimate act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective control over the economies they have been entrusted to manage . adopting negative interest rates , initially launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in june , represents a major turning point for central banking . previously , the emphasis was placed on boosting aggregate demand , primarily by lowering borrowing costs , but also by spurring wealth effects from appreciating financial assets . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , a shift to negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability , setting the stage for the next crisis . first , zero interest rates , then quantitative easing , and now negative interest rates , one futile attempt begetting another .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the price of permits fell below € three per ton in april 2013 , rendering an emissions-trading market almost irrelevant . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has also proven ruinously expensive . this , in turn , has encouraged greater reliance on highly polluting coal , the worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . that would n’t have happened had the price mechanism still underpinned climate-change policy .
it will of course be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances rather than on bilateral imbalances . in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often balance bilateral surpluses with other countries . while china might want oil from the middle east , those in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – might be more interested in gucci handbags than they are in china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s massachusetts industry . so china may have a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , but such bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . the task facing the imf is formidable .
stress , worry , and rage all hit ten-year us highs in 2018 . asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a scale from zero ( worst life ) to ten ( the best life ) , americans in 2018 responded with 6.9 , down from 7.0 in 2017 , and 7.3 during 2006-2008 . asked about their feelings the previous day , the majority of americans ( 55 % ) in 2018 said that they had experienced stress over a lot , nearly half ( 45 % ) said that they felt worried a lot , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they felt anger a lot . these stress measures are in line with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness has also declined in 2018 . the american population was the seventh-most stressed in 2018 , less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela .
to that end , banks should make their values and cultures integral to their hiring , firing , and promotion decisions . a written code – emphasizing the commercial benefits of ethical business conduct , and the adverse consequences of falling short – is part of that effort , and may help to preserve and strengthen a culture ; but a code on their own is insufficient . employees must understand instinctively what can be done , and what should never be done . they must internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical norms of conduct . constant reminders and repetition , in turn , are essential .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote ; today , most women in the developed world are enfranchised . this is certainly true in pakistan , where the general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . at first sight , pakistan seems progressive . the law has authorized women to vote since 1956 , almost a decade after independence from britain . but in many developing countries , the resistance that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny , persists .
none of these economies foresaw the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , it has some semblance of full employment . in some cases , the outcome has been unexpected : some lending rates have actually increased . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis was worsening , and unemployment has risen to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . they have continued to take advantage of the old discredited models , perhaps moderately modified . it should have been apparent that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models – both formal models and mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking – were badly wrong .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his last wife – were as incompetent at governing like kim , but , following the disaster of the cultural revolution , antagonism to them within the military and other state institutions was too widespread to last . they , and the gang of the four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) were soon ousted . but mao ’s death did , at least , end the caesarism era in china . because he had no son to succeed him , mao appointed the five-person politburo to do the job . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism and then , from marxism to capitalism , was fortunate for china ’s citizens .
the most fateful attack to accompany installing any dictatorship is an attack on civil society . we in ukraine have learned this truth from harsh experience in the communist era . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored overnight . although communism could , every now and then , coexist with private property , and sometimes with private enterprise , it could never coexist with civil society . but reviving civil society – the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , as the peoples of egypt and tunisia find out soon .
even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ? then , imagine america ’s intelligence agencies confirmed that an act of aggression was indeed underway , despite putin ’s denials . finally , imagine how trump might respond . even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ? and would putin make another “ unbelievable offer ” offer to help us investigators get to the bottom of things ?
but these outside risks do not make the global growth outlook necessarily grim . so 2019 could turn out to be another year of robust global growth . europe ’s growth could be above trend , as it continues its long , sluggish recovery from the pre-crisis debt crisis . and , for many years , china ’s economy has been proving doubters wrong . the baseline scenario for the u.s. remains strong growth .
but she acknowledged that the sec had many other items on its agenda , and placed the issue on the back burner – a polite way to say that the sec , like the heroic students at tiananmen square , had surrendered under irresistible pressure . this small victory turned into a major shareholder defeat when the sec , rather than performing such analysis and reproposing the rule , chose to go on a standstill . eugene scalia , the son of us supreme court justice antonin scalia , won the case against the sec in its court of appeals , dc circuit , on technicality , the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . at a conference last december , i asked sec chairwoman mary mellon , when her agency planned to reintroduce the rule . i even offered to do the cost-benefit analysis for free .
in short , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to the financial crisis but did not over-react . indeed , the fed ’s monetary policy has not been sufficient to stave off an american recession , albeit one that remains so moderate that many doubt whether it qualifies as a true animal . and in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . but these are not normal times , either . the european central bank ’s response has been analogous to the fed ’s , but less forceful , with monetary policy easier than headline inflation would suggest .
when the opposition tried to question these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki the winner . days later , the eck ’s chief publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce “ the results ” immediately , despite clear evidence of voting rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who actually won . the election is a disaster for kenya , but the international community ’s response to it is no less distressing . eu observers also announced that the election tally has not met basic international standards .
but it is difficult for monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of trade barriers . moreover , a host of risk-related problems makes such indicators hard to interpret . given that market-based measures currently conflict with most other key economic data as well , little weight should be attached to them . unsurprisingly , therefore , household ’ surveys and corporate inflation expectations forecast actual inflation more precisely . it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit european manufacturers hard , particularly in germany .
at first sight , it seems counter-intuitive that companies want to share data and potentially give away a competitive advantage . but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold back assumptions about the boundaries of pre-competitive collaborative efforts that are needed to adjudicate . but this presupposes that holding such data actually imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed operating model is financially sustainable . as recently as morgan stanley ’s report pointed out , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rates are inadequate to sustain large inner r & d organizations , making the industry ’s current operating model financially non-viable . market-making drugs must fund the cost of failure .
nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s price of oil , are an appalling scenario . trying to force iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions has failed to produce results . despite the tightening economic noose – the american imposition of sanctions on all companies doing business with iran ’s central bank and the european union plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports by late january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb . while the iranian government could most likely be deterred from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear-armed iran could well become a regional arms race – a nuclear-armed saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . the market has already made the measure of past week ’s tensions , driving the price of some oil contracts to their highest levels in eight months .
a post-crisis harmonization of fervor in italy implies that it will now be more costly everywhere in the eu everywhere to insure against currency volatility or unexpected interest-rate changes . this levy , strongly backed by those countries whose financial sectors are in tatters after the crisis , is hard to swallow for eu states that did not intervene to bail out their banks . the levy is an easy way to spread the political and financial costs of a crisis from some to all eu members . if applied , bank capital will scarcer , the flow of credit slower , and bank fees higher in countries with pretty stable financial sectors , simply because others have spent a fortune supporting their financial systems , and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify across the eu . the same is true with the derivatives trading system .
learnup , a san francisco startup that has attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to specific jobs , primarily entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers foot the bill , with expectations that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . the california community college system is already working with learnup to give students access to skills required to fill available local jobs . and , indeed , once the candidates have completed the training , learnup is helping them to secure interviews with prospective employers that already comprise several large companies . at & t is offering scholarships through partner non-profit institutions , and provides paid internships for up to 100 graduates .
president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crisis in the face of overwhelming public expectations , created by the 2011 revolution whose protagonists sought not only freedom , but also economic development and social justice . president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of vast public expectations , created by the muslim brotherhood , during its first turn in power . morsi ’s government appeared incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority is insufficient , especially nowadays . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood also suffered its own flaws , particularly the failure of morsi and his government to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which ultimately contributed to his election . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority is insufficient , especially nowadays .
paris – earlier this month , pascal ’s simbikangwa , accused of complicity in the genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue to unfold in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state , massacres of civilians continue to take place , particularly around pearl harbor . and french military interventions in the central african republic have not put an end to severe inter-communal violence there . unfortunately , africa ’s mass killings continue .
europeans may not mind this right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but they might not be so happy if george bush iii came along . moreover , with growing concerns about america ’s fiscal policy sustainability , the euro has a huge opportunity to play a significantly larger role as a reserve currency . one shudders to think what happens if europe does not pull out of its current funk . certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed global economic policy counterweight to the us . fortunately , europeans will probably not wait so long to start moving ahead again .
a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging rapidly . that implies that it was inadequate to focus on growth until the deflation gap narrowed considerably – that is , until now . the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , he emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and a reduction in the corporate-tax rate . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into japan ’s economy .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon 's departure from politics is all the more striking in view of images of the chaos emerging from gaza that israel has vacillated and the collapse of the palestinian authority from our eyes . the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense of progress “ at the margin , " but the rapid pace of technological change puts us in a position to expect equally rapid advances in human affairs . many of us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled only by a providential man , with all the hopes – and dangers – that this entails . nor will the emergence of another providential figure come easily . not all the exceptional periods generate their bonapartes , and this is probably a good thing , for exceptional leaders may give the illusion that all problems have solutions that are far from true .
uk leadership in these areas has been highly appreciated , and would sorely missed should the british decide to leave . so , while the cameron government ’s support for deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eurozone can not and will not be shaped from outside and according to british interests . the uk is not in a position to block other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other member states ’ political will to move ahead . indeed , last year ’s negotiations on the “ fiscal compact ” should already have shown cameron ’s difficulty in exercising a so-called national veto . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including measures on the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change .
in july of that year , robert s. ford , an american ambassador to syria , was sent to sunni city of hama , where assad ’s father ordered a massacre 30 years earlier . according to the state department at the time , the point of the visit was to “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and to express themselves . ” it is already clear that the obama administration did not know what it was bargaining for when , without thinking about what would come next , assad ’s removal in 2011 . did the administration really not foresee that assad , like his father before him , would react to a popular violence uprising ? but they would fault the us for not comprehending a wider war .
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) is under pressure to float the currency . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . all economics students are learning the mundell-fleming model , according to which an economy can not sustain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movements , and an independent monetary policy simultaneously . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and an open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow to foreign currencies and convert them into the domestic currency for investment in domestic assets . the ensuing capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank in its bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , intervening by selling domestic currency , particularly in america , until interest rates and money supply returned to their old levels .
stagnant incomes of most american workers are undermining economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply sides ( through adverse side effects on educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) . america ’s presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : the 15 % tax credit for profits that companies distribute to workers over two years . by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies to offset the administrative costs of establishing a profit-sharing program . tax credits could also foster changes in corporate culture , by spurring pretenses discussion not only of profit sharing , but also of sharing information and decision-making authority with employees . in order to limit costs and prevent abuses , profits totaling more than 10 % of the worker ’s pay would be discounted ; the overall level offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against wage substitution , raises , and other benefits would be established .
most russians do not see a connection between the prosecution of key figures and the credibility of the authorities . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is finally tackling corruption . but it is the message to russia of america ’s shaken elites that matters more . and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even when , like abyzov and ishayev , they have retired from public services and no influence . moreover , selective repression has become harsher .
improved indicators would reveal the highly negative and possibly protracted effects of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so enamored of austerity , which lowered fiscal deficits but decreased national wealth , properly measured , even more so . last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge , and policies in incheon , south korea , the group published its report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . it also supported the commission ’s successor , the high level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress . the new report emphasizes a few topics , like trust and insecurity , which were addressed only briefly by mismeasuring our lives , and explores a few others , like inequality and sustainability , more deeply . and it explains how inadequate metrics have resulted in deficient policies in many areas .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about financial markets ’ reform and regulation from the perspective of the first three purposes , and he found himself “ moving toward … mak [ ing ] the purchase of an investment permanent and indissoluble , like a marriage … . ” but he immediately drew back : the fact that each individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid ’ ( though this can not be true of all investors collectively ) calms and makes him far more willing to run the risk … ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone who is completely exempt from gambles ; whilst he has had to pay to this propensity the appropriate toll … ” it is for these reasons that we seem to have seemed frozen by past generations or two whenever we contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . and it is why , even in the face of a severe financial crisis , we remain frozen nowadays . moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone who is completely exempt from games/gambling instinct ; whilst he has had to pay to this propensity toll … .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no oil tariff , and only a $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that american companies ( a huge portion of which goes to a single firm ) receive on ethanol . thus , foreign producers can not compete unless their cost is $ 1,05 per gallon below those of american producers . huge subsidies have meant that america has become the world ’s largest producer of ethanol . yet , despite this huge advantage , some foreign firms can still make it in the american market .
the results have not only created a conflict between american federal legislation and state legislation , but also signal a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that concerning same-sex marriage . the legal and political challenges implied are no minor : marijuana remains the illicit substance under us federal legislation and the international conventions that america enacted . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : while public-opinion polls in 2012 indicated for the first time a small majority in favor of legalization , opponents remain vehement . just as important , so far has us president barack obama ’s reaction to the colorado and washington votes , both states that he won easily in his reelection bid . on other issues – notably , immigration – obama rejects claims of states ’ ’ ’ ’ rights , insisting on federal authority .
roughly four million northerners were denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they were offspring of migrants from neighboring countries . the result has been catastrophic , as ethnic rivalries have sharpened . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 led to a new “ democratic ” constitution that became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions have been mounting since houphouet ’s death and aggravated by the new constitution , which enshrined ethnic discrimination . whatever else said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves no doubt about the benefits of the social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically with its former colony .
in the long run , they probably also want the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge ceases to be a civil right . political trustworthiness will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past . these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power , have a clear agenda , and are bearing in mind that education in the european union is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . these governments want to establish an educational system according to which the state itself decides which fields of research are necessary and socially .
dubai – globalization , as many recently noted , is in retreat . mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , noted that interdependence , formerly an economic boon , has now become an existential threat . despite all of its undeniable benefits , it has spawned governance problems that have exposed the inadequacies of national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions have given rise to political backlash and the perils of disaster on many fronts . this has left people everywhere , rich and poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failed states to failed banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but can not address effectively .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the notion of the country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , because sri lanka ’s most notable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature ; rather , it is the fact that china has provided president hu jintao with both the military and the diplomatic cover he needed to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would either have neither the wherewithal nor the willingness to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system ; it has now demonstrated its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” has been finalized .
germany has the biggest exposure by far among rescuing the eurozone ’s crisis-stricken countries , thereby helping to ease austerity more than any other country . when alexander hamilton , the first us treasury secretary , mutualizing state debts in 1791 , he believed that this would cement a new american nation . but the mutualizing of debt gave rise to vast moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively . should the euro break down , and gipsic countries default , germany alone would lose some € 545 billion , nearly half of the aggregate sum mentioned , given that the bundesbank has carried out most of the net disbursement in the name of gipsic countries , which are reflected in target balances . george soros underestimates the risks that debt deflation would pose for europe ’s future .
hong kong – looking back on 2016 , there may seem to be little to celebrate . from the perspective of global health alone , the year has appeared to be one of an unrelenting tragedy . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine have been dashed . beyond stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus has emerged as a growing threat . there has also been antibiotic-resistant microbes or “ superbugs , ” the continued revival of yellow fever , and the reemergence of polio in nigeria , which has previously been declared polio-free .
history also shows us that financial exclusion is a persistent problem whenever universal service requirements are absent . during the new deal era , regulators included the functional equivalent of such a requirement in bank charters and thrifts . but these mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation in the 1980s , and banks quickly began to move away from low-cost financial services and toward higher-yielding activities . this dynamic can be seen in the trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings that have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in low-income communities . when it comes to ensuring equity in the banking sector , these precedents , and existing institutions point the way forward .
after all , the israeli government not only permitted the supposedly unapproved outposts to exist , but also supplied them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection . this was n’t lost on all of america ’s leaders , and it was not even a few months ago . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry said the american congress that direct talks between israel and palestine had walked “ poof ” ” ” when israel announced 700 new homes for israelis in the west bank . by december 2016 , obama allowed the united nations security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major obstacle ” to the two-state solution . it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel as drove by the massive israeli settlements on territory that they were working to include within an independent state .
new haven : across europe and america , men in black tie and women in kenzo and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and the glimmerglass . perhaps , then , it is also the time to ask once again a fundamental question : should the state continue to ladle out generous subsidies to such an elite activity ? consider a thing of indisputable beauty and spiritual depth : a roman catholic high mass . once again , state coffers are tapped to support these privileged retreats . does its grandeur mean that the state should subsidize it ?
in the case of defense and warfare , unpredictability includes the possibility of young men dying in action . but foreign policy , as the us has known it , is essentially a manifestation of a nation state or a superpower . this contrast underlines the fact that eu integration ’s great achievements have occurred in that no-man ’s – land that lies between total national independence and total loss of sovereignty within a federation . thus , a key characteristic of foreign policy integration is that governments can not know in advance what they are letting themselves in for . that is not surprising , therefore , that foreign-policy integration has made little progress .
without additional support from the international community , our vision will not be realized , despite strong political will and rigorous planning . lebanon often struggles to attract financing because of its status as a middle-income country , but that label is misleading , because it fails to account for the serious structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis or the vast share of its resident population composed of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq living in abject poverty . i am thankful to the un ’s donors from the start , but now we need additional international support . we are one thing i hope to become clear at the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict . we are facing a $ 100 million gap for a new school year , and we are now facing $ 6 million .
what does this tell us about human nature and our capacity to live either prudently or ethically ? of course , part of the problem is that us make resolutions to do just such things as we are not otherwise likely to do so . so we use the occasion of the new year to try to alter behavior that may be the most difficult to change . that makes failure a distinct possibility , and it seems , to be doing just that . only the confucius would resolve to eat ice cream at least a week , and only a workaholic would resolve to spend more time ahead of television .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overstated the strength of the american economy for 11 consecutive years . the odds of this happening are one in 2,048 . elementary mathematics dictates that credible forecasts should at least overestimate half the time and undershoot half the time . the fed clearly needs a deep view of its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes . if each year of the fed ’s forecasting date were coin toss , we would now hold eleven heads in a row and zero-sum .
any study seeking to determine whether psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will find that some patients with the condition do not have it upon re-interviews . such is the nature of the imperfect trustworthiness of psychiatric diagnosis . how high a percentage should be before claiming that over-diagnosis is a significant problem and value judgment . but we think that an over-diagnosis rate of more than 50 % crosses a clinical significance threshold . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously given a diagnosis seem to have it not upon re-interviews , but rather at how many .
indeed , in the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . this time , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and the banking crisis is global . at a time of severe economic distress , policymakers thrash out about seeking solutions , with some losing confidence in the economic system itself . indeed , in the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they can find at the problem , but it will take time for deleveraging from the boom to run its course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s extensive travels in europe this year have not drawn as much attention as they should , given that he is us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . bannon now wants to build a federation of nationalist parties across europe . as more countries have turned themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his political project anywhere other than in america . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen , herself an open supporter of russian president vladimir putin , bannon seems to have in mind a new type of “ neo-nationalist international . ”
macartney refused to conform to china ’s imperial protocol by declining to kowtow to the emperor on the grounds that he was not required to do the same to his own sovereign state . as a result , the mission broke down . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang directly from another incident almost a century earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london . one famous incident in the late eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the chinese imperial court of china . this , too , was very much a case of “ keeping face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord insisted on the equal status of his king .
assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged over the next five years , and then rises from 2 % to 5 % . during those five years , a investor earns an additional 2 % every year for a cumulative gain of 10 % . but when the interest rate on a ten-year bond rises to 5 % , the bond ’s price falls , from $ 100 to $ 69 . here is how arithmetic works for an investor who rolls over the ten-year bonds over the next five years , thereby earning 2 % more annually than it would by investing in treasury bills or bank deposits . if not , the loss in bond prices would more than wipe out the extra interest that it earned , even if rates remain unchanged for five years .
change must start within the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to rise in the future . as a result , the g-8 countries should agree not to any new , oil-powered cars of onwards from 2025 . this decision would not be directed against individual mobility , but against the dissipating of the scarce resource that is more urgent to produce synthetic materials . political leaders should not privilege any particular technology . only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbon consumers , can initiate global change .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has managed , once again , to turn facts on their head . as part of a broader effort to take china to task for supposedly “ ratifying ” the united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has now renewed accusations that the country manipulates its currency as a way to gain the advantage of its exports . such statements are as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation is not supported by reality . on the contrary , for the last two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets for the opposite purpose : preventing the renminbi from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and national capital were held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians found themselves confronting a few painful truths about their country . in 2002 , two of these followers mustered the courage to press charges . the leader who spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent a few “ godmen , ” ” ” or self-self-proclaimed spiritual leaders who flourish across india . and he has a reputation for sexually wearing his female followers . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurmeet ram rahim singh insan – a hindu , muslim , and sikh names followed by the word for “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu .
for these reasons , europeans favor a new security council resolution , even if its measures are weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally . by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program , if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions . politically , ahmadinejad surely would not miss the chance to take advantage of unilateral us actions for propaganda purposes , arguing that iran has conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological progress . to be sure , some imports would become more expensive for iran ; but the economic effect of such sanctions would remain limited . but a clear-headed analysis of iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would lead to more commercial diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from diminishing levels of european exports to iran .
no one could be more identified with the political elite than abe , the grandson of the wartime cabinet minister and later prime minister , and the son of a foreign minister . and yet , he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . his efforts to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit the “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , have earned him the praise of donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , who has called abe a “ trump before trump . ” postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite consciously seeking to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . abe and his allies try to quash that influence .
african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst sides of multinational companies : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources are , not where it ’s pleasant to work . but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationship with global corporations need not be so restricted . because the customer is abroad , and little processing is made in country , why should companies upgrade local skills , or otherwise help the host economy ? ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public image . as one former mining managers in the region told me , the goal has always been simple : get assets out of the ground and out of the country as cheaply , and with little fuss over everything else .
boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . now growth in home prices is faltering in some of these cities . this has been a huge windfall for homeowners , but it has hurt anyone plans to buy . the first big city to boom was london , starting around 1996 . these and other cities have been booming pretty much ever since ; prices in most are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 .
control also relies on internet users ’ demography , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite , and are more likely to embrace the internet as part of a newfound consumer lifestyle than it is as a tool of political or social revolution . what is surprising is that the government ’s mechanisms for control have been largely effective . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are increasingly recognizing how to protect their economic and social interests through a language of rights . the government employs host of new legal regulation , a shadowy internet police force , and a powerful hardware-founded national information filtering system . but it is also spurring profound social changes , rooted in rising human-rights consciousness within society , something that has strengthened -- and amplified -- the internet as part of a newfound consumer lifestyle than as a tool of political or social revolution .
this european polity lacks a second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . but , while common european causes arise daily , they have no europe-wide political representation . as a result , nationally elected representatives are responsible for making crucial eu-level decisions . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent european citizens ’ associated interests because none has had to compete for europe-wide public support .
obama originally had a marvelous team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . this time , too , not to mention the name of any deep economic thinker , or of any particular economic model . while a president ’s advisers may change , one would think that the candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically what they are selling is their ability to judge and manage expertise , not their own capacity as economists . and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect discussion of consultants or intellectual influences . is there anything more , indeed , that one can ask a president ?
after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to america prevents eu members from clearly and distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help to cement arab states ’ commitment to a coalition against terrorism in the same way that it provides a useful shove to american diplomacy . for another , they will have to make their own , distinct contributions . in short , they will have to make their own efforts to sustain collective efforts . they can not simply wait for america to move along ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . what this distinct contribution could not be is hard to define .
earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease day program in california . the topic was obscure but large collection ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a specific type of genetic error – one that occurs in the cell machinery that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known about what causes the mutations that give rise to these congenital disorders , and treatments exist for only a few . as a result , medical professionals often know little about the symptoms and biology of these diseases . one reason for this is that small numbers of patients make studying illnesses and testing drugs difficult .
in time , this “ corruption culture ” will permeate society . markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest bidder . while corruption is more a symptom than a cause of ukraine ’s problems , a culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are regularly bought and sold .
in israel , obama will encounter a country that has indeed moved , but not toward a missing center . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium of government only reinforces this sober interpretation . nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion . on the contrary , settlements offer cheaper housing than is available in israel , and thus resolve one of the country ’s major economic problems . “ red lines ” in israel , by contrast , have a way of mutating into lines drawn in the sand that are then produced invisible at the slightest wind .
as a result , the ratio of tax revenues to total spending this fiscal year has fallen to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . if the government continues on this path , many expect next year ’s budget deficit to widen further . japan had a similar experience in the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s asset bubble burst , causing economic stagnation . despite japan ’s fiscal weakness , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now .
its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that enabled mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and murdering supporters of the opposition movements for democratic change ; the transformation of a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa ’s breadbasket to a place where half of the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , exemplified by its attacks on daily news , the suppression of critical voices . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , especially those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . in late august , the heads of state of state of the northwestern members of the south african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges ahead of them . among the summit ’s 54 paragraphs , two dealt with zimbabwe . mugabe ’s regime committed outrage following outrage .
a 2014 pew study found that while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with the direction of national policy , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as were state colleges and universities . and the american constitution allows individual states to function as what judge brandeis referred to democracy laboratories by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk . california , wyoming , and other states allowed women to vote – an example that encouraged the passage of the nineteenth amendment ( enfranchising all adult women ) . there is a long , rich history of successful experimentation .
should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is attributable to a sharp fall in commodity prices , and the painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries . in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone . europe must aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth , and the creation of competitive employment . greece alone currently has a slightly negative inflation rate .
record-high speculative prices have thus probably caused bunker traders to release inventories , but those releases may have bought off speculators , who are now active lessees in commercial storage capacity . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , because it tends to occur against a background of strong fundamentals . the implication is that speculators can drive up prices and increase their inventory holdings , even as total commercial inventories remain little different . additionally , oil market speculation may have induced “ echo speculation , ” whereby ultimate users buy refined products in advance of protection against future price hikes . they then take delivery on their premises in a way that overall refined inventories rise , but that increase is not part of reported commercial inventories .
but both states lack the domestic revenues needed to sustain their institutions . furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed and will no doubt continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . such a state , exisiting de facto or widespread formal recognition , will have an ever-lasting effect on the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has toppled some regimes , albeit not others . if they wish to survive well in the next century , they will most likely need to be subsumed under a union backed by a larger , more powerful , and more established nation-state .
it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people , from year to year , are not the same people . good fortune and a bad fortune alternate randomly randomly , and the poorest people are particularly vulnerable when adversity – like a hurricane in a fishing village – strikes . so risk management , by smoothing bumps in income , can be extremely important in alleviating the effects of poverty . we tend to think that new risk-management goods , such as novel types of insurance or financial derivatives , will primarily interest the wealthy , or at least the relatively affluent . indeed , new risk-management goods are being developed for some of the poorest people in africa , asia , and latin america .
that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , sometimes declared allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( citizens of russia ) , deprived – or liberated – it ’s a matter of opinion – russians of all collective life ; both the real life of shared hardships , and the imaginary half-life of communist solidarity . that disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and the proletariat . today , everyone deals with life and hardship , individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life uniform . indeed , even russian uniformity is different in the eu itself . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s big private oil companies ) petrol stations .
a new system in which “ reversible bonds ” have replaced quotas and desirability screenings would diminish such competition , while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for both sides , the shielding destination countries from fiscally motivated immigration , and protecting source countries from the costs associated with the loss of talented workers . but , despite the potential benefits of cooperation in controlling illegal immigration , most countries , including the us and the united kingdom , are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s economic benefits . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural competition between destination and source countries for the most productive workers .
real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in most of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy has shrunk by an estimated 23 % . every downturn eventually comes to an end . the mark of a good policy is that it succeeds in making the downturn shallower and longer than it otherwise would have been . the mark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with protracted consequences . germany , the top-performing european country , has recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the last six years .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of their compatriot , the cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as the pope . his first return visit to his native country soon showed to all the world the new pope ’s power . here , a prominent writer , was “ poland ’s second baptism . ” some were horrified , others wept with joy . but , even amid our euphoria , we failed to anticipate how much a new pope would change not only poland , but the world .
in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ clarify ” the article 104 of the basic law , declaring that all oaths taken by office-holders must be “ solemn , exact , complete , and sincere . ” yau and leung were barred from taking their seats on the legislative council . to most hong kong ’s lawyers , depictions of political authority did not represent simply a reinterpretation of old rules , but a move toward making new ones . restraint , after all , is not a leninist virtue . although the hong kong courts surely might have handled the issue on their own – under the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is assured an independent court system , in addition to the right to elect its own legislature , an enraged china has intervened .
but human-rights sensitivity has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s worldwide decline . the international labor organization reports that trade unions are in retreat in most nations . reebok , the multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as being “ based on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . the international labor organization reports that trade unions are in retreat in most nations . prodded by groups like the labor rights consortium and the ethical trading initiative , some corporations promise to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even provide employees with a voice in the workplace .
the united states has already taken the next logical step . the securities and exchange commission calls for companies that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these raw materials ’ ’ origin and mitigate risks in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance , if they are found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . that is just as it should be . the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar obligatory due-diligence requirements . responsible sourcing are a duty , not a choice , to make .
most of their productive and financial assets are held by foreign companies , just as most of the rules that govern their economies have been determined by the eu . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to assert that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right in its own hands , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and the strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy . the truth , however , is that cee countries do not have much to lose in terms of sovereignty . they will conclude that they can have it both ways , sustaining the benefits of economic integration , without losing the capacity of their citizens to infringe on their citizens ’ rights , or use the eu financial transfers to build patron-client relations and reinforce their hold over the state .
one concern among critics is that a transition to a green economy will essentially monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to the profit-seeking behavior by bankers and merchants , whose flaws have helped to trigger the financial and economic tumult of the last four years . that is why the connection to governance and institutions at rio +20 is just as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are laying the groundwork for rules and institutions to guide not only its direction , but also its frontiers . as the recently released report “ direction toward a green economy : the pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication ” shows , a market economy as currently constituted has resulted in misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . the systemic crises of the food , fuel , and finance that came to a head in 2008 – and that are ongoing across many countries – have their roots in an economic paradigm that has not accounted for the value of nature and its array of life-supporting services . indeed , deep and pervasive market failures – in carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental and environmental scarcities , undermining human well-being and social equity .
by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket assaults make me an islamophobe ? third , as usual , israel has been accused of anti-semitism , those who have dared to criticize its disproportionate response to hamas ’s ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment by the palestinians . an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately was accused of using the language of holocaust denial . coincidentally , the deadly attack on gaza came in the same time that a clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle eastern peacemakers has published books on how the task should be tackled properly . it has all sounded a bit like a series of job applications , a war for president barack obama ’s ear .
a similar political imperative lies at the heart of sinhalese chauvinism , which has turned a sudden return to public life in sri lanka . the sinhalese ’s religious and ethnic passions have been encouraged during the final , bloody pushback that ended sri lanka ’s ’s quarter-century civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but , instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , the then-president , rajapaksa , has continued to play on ethnic hatred , as he has subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by a coalition of sri lanka ’s democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election , an outcome that he then sought to annul , was supposed to end both his career and race-baiting politics . but the former president is now mounting a furious comeback bid , and may well win the parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms become the actual targets of terrorists who see education as a threat . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean “ false ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of attacks by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria the worst affected . such attacks expose with stark clarity that providing education is not just a matter of blackboards , books , and curricula . schools around the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now need security plans to ensure their pupils ’ safety and provide trust to parents and their communities .
modest seed funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . global organizations are tapping networks of tech-savvy refugees and hiring for online work . some , such as tent , are encouraging businesses to hire refugees and integrate into supply chains where they live . more scholarship opportunities for refugees , together with greater funding for schools within and outside the refugee settlements , would also be welcome .
that is why it is increasingly being dismissed in favor of an agro-ecological model based on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in cannes on el sheikh , egypt , for the fourth-meeting conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity ( the un biodiversity conference ) . one hopes that the international community will uphold its duty to protect food supplies , as well as to agricultural rights around the world . while there , there will be some consideration of whether to press the brakes on gene drives , ensuring that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before such technologies break down within their communities .
the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan in death a matter of weeks until the succession had been settled . the emotional manipulation of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death appears certain to translate into electoral support for his grey successor , nicolás maduro . but will this suffice to create the chávista lineage ? it is not exactly clear how long venezuela ’s hugo chávez was in fact dead before his passing was officially announced . buying time to secure their own political future , venezuelan officials are carefully stage-managed chávez ’s malady and eventual death , even suggesting near the end , while passing through complex and agonizing cancer treatments , that he is still “ walking and exercising . ”
for them , the main obstacle will remain that existing technologies allow insufficient room for factor substitution : using less-skilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital . governments in developed countries also have a role to play in affecting the nature of technological innovation . such policies are unlikely to make much of a difference to the developing world . for them , the main obstacle will remain that existing technologies allow insufficient room for factor substitution : using less-skilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital . requiring quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not be met easily by substituting machines with manual labor .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump will take office having received almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with a republican senate majority , whose members have won a total of 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . trump will also launch his presidency with an approval rating below 50 % . only the republican majority in the us house of representatives , led by speaker paul ryan , has any claim to represent the 55 % numerical majorities of americans who voted on election day 2016 . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before quashing it ) – in the history of such ratings . indeed , the administration of the world ’s oldest democracy is not democratic .
more broadly , turkey and the west are experiencing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict . the s-400 disputes are just the latest example of how military procurement matters have exposed a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s ’s view , its western partners have not done enough , through technology transfer and joint-manufacturing regimes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . in contrast , chinese , and to a lesser extent , russian firms have been more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter ’s military procurements . and domestic deflationary interests are just a part of the story .
underdevelopment in many southern african countries faring badly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world creates the conditions of desperate poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond control of atrophying state systems . this is not to say that our responses to the dangers that arise from the legacies of the past must be rooted in the past . we will not create a better world in the 21 st century by forgetting what occurred in the 19 th and much of the 20 th century . as we embark on the still-new millennium , though , ironically , it seems clear that the possible disorder of tomorrow might be due in no small part to yesterday 's colonial order . more needs are needed than ever before for innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance .
in the bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have been offering four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers , where russian personnel can see the unthreatening nature of the us and nato missile-defense activities ; · joint russian-american expert studies on how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent , and what steps can be taken to minimize any problems ; · expanded chinese-russian theater-level bmd exercises that build on earlier collaboration – disrupted by russia ’s august 2008 war with georgia – and rehearse how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly resist missile threats ;
although the tax package trump signed into law last december front-loaded tax cuts , and is now helping the economy grow , government revenues have responded a lot to that growth . under these conditions , trump ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals are likely to run into budget constraints . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) and to curtail the growth in medicaid spending have been imperiled . he has already ruled out any changes to social security . and a temporary increase in defense spending will revert to insufficient levels after this fiscal year .
the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve the jewish state ’s identity . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid probably will not prevent the eu from delivering a partition vote ; reverberations of that are not only echo across the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy ; they are also impeding europe ’s efforts to reset relations with countries in the middle east and north africa . indeed , europe ’s divided stance on the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record in achieving a foreign-policy consensus . granting observer-state status for palestine would take off the table the prospect of a “ single-state ” solution that has lately gained momentum among experts . a divided vote thus undermines european interests , delivering an unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment .
moreover , in countries where google is widely criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights the information ’s absence when something is blocked , letting people know that it exists , but that they can not have access to it . rather than demand an end to censorship now , an impossible dream , google is working to make that happen by eroding government control over information . a little transparency inevitably leads to more of it . with google , humans are beginning to expect answers about everything . on the other hand , every time someone in china googles something and gets an answer – a product ’s good and bad points , the details of someone ’s government does n’t like – must wonder , “ why ca n’t i get this kind of information about everything ? ”
r2p recognizes that sovereign states have the responsibility to protect their people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to assist them ; and that , if a state is “ manifestly failing ” to protect its people , the broader international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely , decisive action ” that might include military action if enacted by the un security council . while no outcome has been formally agreed or made public , several themes that have emerged from the beijing meeting . taken together , they offer reason for confidence that it may be able to reconstitute the international consensus , so long missing in syria about how to deal with the hardest massachusetts cases . first , there has been widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . true , some chinese scholars remain keen to argue that the entire r2p enterprise , especially its sanction of military action in exceptional cases , is just “ old neo-interventionist wine ” in a new bottle .
by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle the benefits of globalization . global integration has brought tremendous benefits : an international division of labor that is so clearly demonstrated by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits such as economies of scale and the rapid proliferation of innovations from one country to another that is less easy to demonstrate through static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic benefits , such as the freedom of choice associated with an international movement of goods , capital and people , and the freedom to think associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and the freedom to think associated with an international movement of goods , people , and the freedom to think associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and the freedom to think associated with ideas . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need to understand these better if we want the system to survive . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent efforts to correct and contain the system of deficiencies . so the global economy should indeed think of itself as a global capitalist system .
( nixon was an unindicted co-operative in watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in new york city case involving his pre-election payoffs to silence two women with sexual liaisons shortly after the birth of his son , barron . ) trump has been portraying the report ’s findings as entirely exonerating him ( “ no collusion , no obstruction ” ) , despite the report stating explicitly that this was not the case . worse for trump , the widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the us congress undertake the impeachment proceedings . mueller made it clear that a controversial us justice department policy , intended to help president richard nixon , bars the prosecution of a sitting president . this is neither in the constitution nor the law .
another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan . indeed , russia ’s supposed peacekeeping troops ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgia ’s other secession-minded region , have kept its insurgent governments safe . russia has also been enforcing a complete georgian trade embargo in the hope of weakening the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . renewed conflict in abkhazia would bring not only the risk of open warfare with russia , but strain relations with armenia , because there are near the 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support the breakaway government .
europe must make progress on its first opportunity if it is to seize the second and that means strengthening the eurozone . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for it , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of eurogroup members and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister accountable . before germany ’s new coalition government was formed , a franco-german working group was established to consider macron ’s proposals . in the short run , the new government seems unlikely to endorse macron ’s proposals in their current form . now that merkel ’s new administration is in charge , we will find out how far germany is willing to go in fostering greater eurozone cohesion .
moreover , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank , and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix of development finance . the financial crisis has also prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs and other countries to expand theirs . today , they are an important feature of most developed and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably those in china , germany , india , and south korea . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets have reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . and large ndbs can have major implications , especially in emerging economies .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially resolve one big problem – the rundown of britain ’s diplomatic service , by creating a much larger problem : the loss of britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s soft power .
as many commentators have noted , from islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks strikingly like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american support ) of the elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and the american government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won elections in gaza in 2006 . so what should the american and other governments that support liberal democracy do now ? the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . more generally , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever reason , weakens the processes , institutions , and checks on state authority that make liberal democracy work . if the choice for islamists remains bullets or ballooning , bullets may now look more promising .
yet the world continues to underestimate frontline health workers ’ capabilities and contributions . this not only undermines their ability to do their jobs effectively ; it also puts them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and spy on muslims . in the early 2000s , for example , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets and administering treatment . as a result , the incidence of malaria fell by 75 % in the two countries from 2000 to 2015 .
once the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . the west ’s logic for enlargement was geopolitical : to bring the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . at first , nato ’s new members were proclaimed to have met both democratic and military criteria . these criteria were later abandoned when nato started inviting even the most backward and corrupt states to join . moreover , nato not only enlarged its membership ; it also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
ironically , this led the imf to focus on its supervisory role . perhaps this proximity came at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret evidence under its nose . so , searching for the causes of the imf ’s failure , we can overrule distraction by increasingly pressing issues . the fund normally expects that problems come from the usual suspects – economically volatile developing countries – but this time the crisis has evolved a few kilometers from its headquarters . if so , this is a failure that raises two key questions .
but if nato is – for better or worse – in command on the ground in libya , it is the un that has given the necessary green light to french action there . it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” between france and the un that is essential to understanding the french position in libya . indeed , france ’s same relationship with the un that led the country ’s resistance to intervention in iraq in 2003 has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . that is a shift that raises a major question : if those who are willing to act prove incapable of doing so “ successfully , ” ” ” ” what happens to global stability unless those who are able are also willing to step in ? at the crossroads of this question stands nato , an organization perceived as american by europeans and international ( that is , not american ) by the average american citizen .
of course , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset norms . but if that hour really was a lunch with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) would have to lie deliberately to conceal it . if an official meets the lobbyist and does not shy away from it , he can simply say so . of course , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , one hopes hope to reset norms . and if an official meets mostly with lobbyists , at the expense of other types of meetings , voters can make judgments on that , too .
in practice , therefore , potentially disruptive new technologies are as likely to be buried as nourished . big tech firms might argue that all the capital they pour into new products and services is squeezing innovations . one suspects , however , that in many circumstances the intent is the nip ’s potential competition in the bud . and there is the risk that the us tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop an almost identical product and their vast legal resources to defend it . it is notable that big tech still derives most of its revenues from its companies ’ core products , for example , apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s office and google search engine .
by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes hundreds of trades on a daily basis . historically , both state and federal attorney general generals have preferred to prosecute “ occasional ” merchants , who stick out like a sore thumb . for example , when a tiny italian bank received from someone who never traded a large order for the shares of the american shoe shortly before the italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not hard to conceal a fish . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes hundreds of trades every day . in other words , precisely because occasional traders ’ trade rarely , it is far easier to prove the nexus of causality between their trades and an illegal ttip .
roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still spend more than twice as likely to carry the virus . african girls are also disproportionately vulnerable to contracting hiv . yet barely one-third of young africans know how to prevent hiv – another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . sexual violence is being used as a tactic in the war , and , with it , is being fought over .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . this may well be true of much or even most of the time . that has certainly been true in russia , and may soon turn out to be true in turkey as well . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change the course of history . the actions and decisions of one man or woman , no matter how powerful , can not determine nations ’ destiny .
as i show in a new peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , the agreement reached in paris would cut temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 ºc . that may seem surprising : we consistently hear how every country has made important pledges to reduce carbon dioxide emissions , the so-called intended nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) , or the indcs . according to the un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , “ the indcs have the capability to limit the forecast temperature rise to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 , ” by no means sufficient , but far below the estimated four , five , or more , degrees of warming projected by many prior policies . figueres has suggested that the paris agreement would cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c , though her version was crafted to avoid actually saying this , it was , predictably , what most people heard . a sea-level rise would have been reduced by just 1.3 centimeters .
of course , an alternative view holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call and spur europe toward broader integration and rebalancing policies . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for getting its own house in order , while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the current system imposes too many constraints and contains too little effective adjustment mechanisms . meanwhile , the eu will most likely not pursue substantial policy or institutional reform in the near term , owing to fear that doing so could adversely affect the outcome of consequential elections this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy . anti-euro political forces are clearly making electoral inroads and will continue to gain ground as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high .
then the pension reform was announced , spurring a string of protests that drove putin to pledge to soften the measure , while asking for russians ’ understanding . yet , like 9/11 , 53 % of the population said they were ready to protest further . and on september 9 , while local government elections took place , tens of thousands of russians joined protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could not attend the event , after being arrested for a previous unsanctioned demonstration . russians realized that they did not need to win at all costs ; they could be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so .
the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 under external pressures and internal demands for change . china ’s imperial state and society were destabilized by european incursions . by the time europe and china crossed paths in the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and so forced china into a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . change , however , did not come smooth ; it did not . china squandered its economic and technological potential on its own , not because of external force .
true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare event . but they tend to be ingenious at the development of a glamorous new area from little towns within an hour of ’s commute from major cities . these cities ’ apparent success , as both governments and economic centers , attests to the fact that urban land derives value from the presence of a well-planned city there . where land today is cheap , it will have great value in the future , if only someone takes the dramatic planning step and makes an entire city there . private developers have trouble getting a large plot free of constraints .
so far , venezuela ’s elite , and much of the investment community , have assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , just badmouthing . it can last for awhile but generate increasing friction with economic realty , and an increasing incentive for chavez to become authoritarian . there is no imminent crisis to happen , but chavez must choose venezuela ’s future . if he goes statist/populist , 2001 will be a year of crisis . if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , a path to growth and stability will follow .
growth is forecast to return above trend by 2005-06 , bringing the current cycle to an end . this means that the us treasury expects the average surplus since june 2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , allowing brown ’s strictures to be met . but independent forecasters are more pessimistic about the future . enormous surpluses in the three years since 1999 have far outweigh the official deficits forecast in the next two years . the average budget surplus since this cycle began is 0.8 % of gdp .
eu strategies have stemmed from the view that all our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or treaties , an effort that has also been recognized with nobel prizes . if successful , a new revolution can lead to strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels . but , as george w. bush ’s price showed long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least toward people who we perceive as members of the group we call “ us . ” in the process , we may well understand that we vote because that is what citizens ought to do , and we excel in our jobs because we strive for respect and self-realization , not just upheaval . a new economics revolution can find space for strategies based on ideals and identities , not just taxes and subsidies .
of course , nato can not safeguard democracy on its own , and it is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as an inducement for governments and parties to behave responsibly and abide by the rule of law . such openly thuggish rulers like ukraine ’s kuchma or lukashenka are almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato implies subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services on the basis of nato ( i.e. , american ) control , which is why any attempt at staging a coup , or stirring up trouble between romanians and our sizeable hungarian minority , can be avoided . the more tightly bound nato to a country like romania is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest , or to eviscerate its democratic system . nato fixes the hard limits of local political elites to do what it wants .
the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor mounting evidence of deteriorating regime performance in china has persuaded even some of the most knowledgeable observers that the end of ccp rule is now a distinct possibility . this is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . in fact , the consequences of leadership de-carbonization are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and a loss of government credibility . an obvious explanation is the power of conventional thinking . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically considered invulnerable , even just before they collapse .
on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to take advantage of the flush toilet adjoining its room , and instead used the chambers pot that he had brought from china . perhaps he suspected that stalin , as the bbc supposedly last year , was collecting and analyzing his feces to grlean information on amazon ’s amazon . but there is a point of recent conduct . when it comes to diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would call “ form . ” some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , falsely claimed that gaveled his shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960 ’s , should steer clear of world leaders ’ topic of manners .
that is why the so-called “ system liberals , ” ” ” or loyalists , who stand for kremlin-backed change , want to dominate the protest movement , and use it as a lever in an ultimate fight with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . indeed , a prospective heir today needs legitimacy , not only from powerful oligarchs but also from the street . until recently , loyalists argued that quest for change precludes criticism of the government , which should somehow be influenced by constructive design . system liberals believed that russia had built an acceptable market economy . its incremental development requires only removing some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform .
my office has worked closely with the state to reassure that , in most cases , juries are being used . similarly , my office has defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) , being pressured by the moscow city government on the pretext of a commercial dispute on the lease . that fight is not over , but , after my intervention , moscow ’s authorities must heed the public ’s negative attitude toward their effort to quash that publication . of course , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human-rights problems , such as the low-grade war in chechnya or the yukos affair . my office pays maximum attention to chechnya , although this is not easy to do from moscow .
new delhi – international discussion of china ’s rise has centered on its increasing trade muscle , growing maritime ambitions , and expanding the capacity to project military power . one critical issue , however , usually escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical parallel . asia ’s water map has fundamentally changed after china ’s 1949 communist victory . no other country has ever succeeded in assuming such unchallenged riparian preeminence on a continent by controlling the headwaters of multiple international rivers and manipulating their cross-border flows . china , the world ’s largest dam builder , with slightly more than half of the planet ’s roughly 50,000 large dams , is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors through a compulsory hydro-engineering project on transnational rivers .
as the failures of financial regulation suggest , important as such economic reform is , they need to be complemented with measures that redress a political ’s asymmetry . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks need , at least initially , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . in the us , holding elections on workdays rather than weekends or holidays , together with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage . the fact that financial institutions have escaped the relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes about their political power . they pose continuing risks to economic stability , without offering compensating benefits from increased investment in productive activities .
a serious look back at the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands at the white house lawn is revealing . the leaders of the world ’s superpowers , united nations officials , the elders , and tens of people of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring peace . for israel , an occupying power , whose people enjoy democratic civilian authority and gdp tens times that of the people it denies basic liberties and autonomy , photo opportunities provided by meeting and greeting palestinian leaders , has replaced achieving peace . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in areas israel occupied in 1967 . negotiators have parsed every possible solution to the permanent-status issue of jerusalem , its borders , settlements , refugees , and economic relations .
this has led to the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china – them , or the us ? in personal relationships , denial tends to mask the imbalances , but only for so long . such is the case with the american and chinese governments . ultimately , the cracks in the us and the imbalances are giving rise to frictions and blame , holding a codependent partner responsible for one ’s own problems . in other words , the export miracle has echoed not through state-sponsored chinese firms , but through the offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west .
as lamy put it , almost 80 % of curry curry favor ; we need only additional spices from major players , india , the european union , the us , brazil , and china . these can be provided in politically palatable ways , which also means that the conclusion of the doha round is within our reach , not beyond our grasp . if doha fails , some say , life will go along . but why bother to continue trying ? that is true , of course , but that does not make this view any less naïve .
the eu has also suddenly awakened to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . but the thaw in eu-belarus relations needs reciprocal , lasting steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional . given that 20 % of russian gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable and structured relationship with its government has made it a high priority . in turn , lukashenko has settled for economic reasons that his country needs eu support , and can no longer depend solely on russia without paying a heavy political price .
paris – the world is witnessing the drastic drop of its natural capital . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer the degradation of their natural capital . worldwide , plant and animal species are vanishing at an unprecedented pace – from 100 to 1,000 times the natural rate of extinction . the planet is located in developing countries , and thus depends on some of the world ’s neediest communities for preserving them . but in the developing world , immediate economic needs often override longstanding imperatives , and protect a fragile environment is rarely a national priority .
at the same time , renewable-energy sources are becoming less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , the price of utility-scale photovoltaic solar energy in africa fell 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continues to decline today . and south africa ’s renewable-energy independence producer procurement program has seen an overall decline in bid prices and oversubscription rates . africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy portfolio , including almost nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than $ 350 gigawatts of its hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than enough to meet the continent ’s future demand .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a european staple , whether the story is of the illegal malian immigrant scaling a paris construction to rescue a toddler , or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . and yet , despite constant coverage – or , more likely , precisely because of it , the immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote was fueled in part by false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe drove down wages . since the vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has engaged in similar distortions , warning that once it left the european union , the uk will face skills shortages . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – are doing just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries by issuing skills-matching visas .
the gdp problem is not that it is a poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional issues ) , but that it is incomplete . that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; but we do need to recognize its limitations . it does not include the increase in the scope of goods and services delivered at negative , incremental cost , rather than the non-material side of individual well-being or social progress more generally . looking ahead , the same cost-adjustment dynamics promise to produce large increases in many areas of well-being . most medical professionals will soon have digital aides to offer diagnoses ( particularly for particular cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research .
but many lament that the country ’s poor political class ’s performance in general offers less cause for celebration . the significant changes to the social composition of india ’s politicians and bureaucrats since independence are indeed proof of work-democracy . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line in the hot sun , believing that their votes make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers will do little to influence the outcome , have stayed at home . studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the poorest vote in numbers well above the national average , while the educated middle class turn out in numbers well below it . whereas psephological studies in the united states have shown that the poor do not vote in substantial numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india .
should we be watching the french presidential campaign with admiration or alarm ? or perhaps a bit of both ? it is undeniably a “ show ” with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a startling conspiracy twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must be taken seriously now . first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy ’s two remarkable spokespersons for his candidacy .
japan has recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade agreements with the united states , which may challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) the obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges accorded to one country in a trade deal must be extended to all wto members . here , japan is again acting “ voluntarily , ” ” under intense us pressure . according to press reports , trump has presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports , or face rising us tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would seem to be render moot trump ’s “ national security ” on concerns over imported toyotas and hondas – a justification that enables him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs . but that may be changing in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his trade union links , as well as his working-age rapport , to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvement in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its fast growing labor force demands a high rate of job creation . emulating the dutch experience with job creation provides the surest route to poverty alleviating brazil ’s poverty . the idea is not that brazil should strive to implement the dutch social-economic model -- countries are far too different from it .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” ” ” two times more twitter followers than the national rifle association almost overnight . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulation and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills the functions of a democracy that online activity , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . hence , the civil-rights marchers in the us during the 1950s and 1860s often evoked the “ meaning of our numbers . ” in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters “ think that simply being in a physical place does a lot , ” an appropriate response would be : “ actually , occupying public spaces can accomplish a great deal , depending on who the occupiers are , and how many they number . ”
so , when it comes to explanations for the dollar ’s decline over the last year , we are confronted with an embarrassment of riches . the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , failed to deliver what he promised . there was no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than to predict future trends . there was no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement .
in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . of course , some worried about the collapse of the us household saving rate , but few have been overly concerned . just as lenders did not force public money before the crisis , so now they can not force heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to seek loans to expand production when markets are flat or down . in one of his latest articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays picked up the form of homes . to me , this view of things explains much better than the orthodox account is why , for all money-pumping central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again , and the economic recovery has since petered out .
the immensely successful labor governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , did just that , essentially inventing a “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . by contrast , the current alp government has struggled , until now , to create anything as compelling . but there seem to be some fundamental rules of the political survival that have been ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling them out may help both the alp and others to remember them . the first rule is to have a philosophy and stick . its elements have been clear : drought , free-market economics ( but , in our case , the low-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social wage ” increases in medicare and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policy ; and liberal internationalist foreign policy .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs to mobilize the private sector – along with ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . this will require not only sufficient funding , but also people-to-people , as well as capacity to match migrants and sponsors . this is the fifth piece of the comprehensive plan . the exodus from war-torn syria was never supposed to enter into crisis . long enough was done , easily predicted , and eminently manageable by both europe and the international community .
furthermore , the distributional effects of the green transition are , unfortunately , adverse . with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for household consumption . a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , the gluttonous cars , and the oil companies ’ stock declines . the problem does not stem from the use of a price tool . it would be the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to be discarded , and additional investment , so that gdp becomes less carbon-intensive .
but it also presents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . and , besides , matters could have been far worse . since the start of the brexit negotiations , we in the eu – our 27 member states , and the european parliament – have not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests , nor lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our priority was first and foremost to secure the rights of european citizens , including by finding a solution to the people of northern ireland and northern ireland , for whom the brexit negotiations were about peace and stability , not just trade and economic . owing to the withdrawal agreement initiated this past october , a destructive , “ hard ” brexit has been averted .
such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a major advocate of american expansionism : “ war is , in the long run , far better for a man ’s soul than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , yet another american president , barack obama , immersed in the middle east ’s two hopeless wars , received his nobel peace prize with an apology for “ just wars . ” the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to be the diplomatic charade it has now . and nothing has attenuated tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by crushing power .
yet , today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is the last of saudi arabia ’s worries . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . so fundamental is the changes to the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , said nothing when us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . politics , too , is superseding religion within israel .
europeans are abuzz with mergers not only to take over of europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition in world markets . no day passes without major headlines about big mergers in europe ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations are performing robbins . in france , big strategic plays are at play in banks and fashion ; italy sees its major players positioning itself on a european and global scale . no one can say how deep the changes will go ; nor is how fast they shift europe into the fast lane . in sum , the old continent is hot ; it is the old one .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . the eu was right to react decisively to securing the euro ’s stability by offering short-term assistance to greece and establishing the european financial stabilization mechanism . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore confidence in markets – and of their own citizens . greece ’s debt crisis was a stark warning that european policymakers must not allow the public debt to pile up indefinitely . recent studies show that once a government ’s debt burden reaches a threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt would only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth .
it is the kind of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or to financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . to prewar fascists , the us was often viewed as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . not considered part of a native russian people , jews were assumed to belong to international cabal , and hence to be inherently treacherous . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis denounced jews as well as marxists and freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalty was suspect . but stalin failed to devise this idea .
the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . it should be above the constitution , not a referendum article . but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind the attack on an american consulate ? the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend based on a core belief that armed tactics of all types are the most effective – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change .
the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization and israel . in any case , israel now seems to have fallen the charade . in london early this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer press questions about his support for the two-state solution . he recently stated that his ultimate aim is for palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is limited in size and sovereignty . their hope surely dwindled further when they perceive the bulldozers to prepare the ground for new settlements – not an uncommon occurrence .
the pain that this policy is causing has been exposed in protests across the continent and in the bitter implications for many struggling families , the young , and the elderly . the pro-europe foundation was partly the promise of ever-rising prosperity . at present , that promise is severely in question . structural change to economies that experienced a sharp fall in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now needs to be made fast , in crisis , and without the luxury of devaluation . europe ’s design flaw – an economic union motivated by politics but expressed in economics – has become starkly apparent .
unification meant that everybody gets not only the benefits of west german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously negative institutions : unions , overpaid unemployment , and excessive job security , pervasive regulation . the problem after all is not in east germany , but rather in the west . if west germany , facing reunification , rolled back all of these unaffordable limitations to free play of markets , the economic costs would be far lower : east and west germany would have more than full employment , the drive for productivity would have been far more aggressive . germany ’s corporatism , of course , made no such solution : the unions wanted their wages protected . the only way to secure them was for the government to pay lots in unemployment compensation in the high-wage east germany .
mofaz ’s statement is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted , not only in the middle east but in the united states as well . that idea is a hegemonic iran that is attempting to dominate the region through an array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column holds that it is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad , and , finally , from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . more recently , amman , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , offered an unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s border , and would thus be not only politically naïve but irrational .
in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats , controlling the house of representatives and ( a filibuster-proof ) senate , had the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 – and so they did . stanford – successful political candidates are trying to realign the proposals on which they are run . obama and his congressional allies have enacted an $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that has been loaded with programs geared to key democratic constituencies such as environmentalists and public employees ; adopted sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain companies for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending levels exceeded world war ii ; and centralized power in washington , dc , and a centralized power in washington dc ( the us ) . the last election , which was followed by such sweeping shifts in policy direction , occurred in 1980 , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending , and regulation , and propped up the federal reserve for disinflation . while the us and 1988 elections were also fairly consequential , policy shifts were not nearly as large as in 1980 and 2008 .
all sides agree that the international economy ’s stability is predicated on a system of global rules . what is challenged is the nature of such rules . developing countries complain about restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor services ) , and fear that new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . they see a trading system that privileges business over labor , the environment , and consumer safety . opponents of trade liberalization decry the secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto , and the influence of corporate interests in rule-making .
not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable , and the government is working hard to preserve and enhance them . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way . but , having fought for freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob says , namibia must defend the freedoms it has won . besides , geingob recognizes how transparency protects him from demands for favors from corporate and other interest groups .
the vulnerability of gordon ’s argument is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . consider the following four phrases in his paper : · “ at a minimum , it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects . ” · “ both the first two revolutions required about 100 years of full effects to percolate through the economy . ”
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to inflows that will inevitably drive up their exchange rates , threatening export-led growth . that may be the right response if the inflows and the upward pressure on the exchange rate are driven by fundamental factors ( the current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . the first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . but , in many cases , inflows are driven by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance that may lead to an overvalued currency , crowding out unconventional export or import-competing sectors , loss of competitiveness , and , eventually , large current-account deficits and thus tighter external constraints on growth . this problem is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
as long as the stock of us debt remains excessive , consumers will dismiss the fed ’s cut in interest expenses as nothing more than a temporary subsidy . moreover , the fall in unemployment largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery . if labor-force participation rates were 66 % , as it was in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it was in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would be just over 11 % , not 6.7 % . plunging debt service is largely an outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy .
he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the cyclically adjusted deficit to 1.5 % of gdp per year , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . but , while he likes to raise her voice , he behaves with caution : today , germany ’s fiscal adjustment is in reality very gradual . countries facing fiercest budget battles are the eu , the united kingdom , and the us , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the offensive . upon assuming office , he has entrusted budgetary forecasting to a new , independent budget office ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any opportunity for sleight-of-hand .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one fundamental feature of egypt ’s stability in peace with israel . other great and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subject to limitations on their acquisition of certain weapons and military facilities . likewise , denying palestinian refugees ’ claim to a right of return to israel ’s proper is both understandable , logical , and just . what sense would it make to bring back millions of palestinians into a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where the majority belongs to another ethnic group ? are they to return to homes and farms that no longer exist ?
in austria , voters will choose between a pro- and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for hofer could add the wind to le pen ’s sails . among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a manner as preventing the left from regaining full powers again , by blocking any criminal charges that may be leveled against him . the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign demands that voters approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s ’s ’s legacy , a legacy that serves as prime examples of damaging right-wing populism can do to the country . renzi ’s proposed reforms , among other things , would modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) .
conversely , some of china ’s most troubling moves can be chalked up to the exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider the harsh treatment of the gadfly critic liu xiaobao , sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching the online petition drive championing civil liberties . would a truly self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish about his activism ? still , it is important to remember that a positive aspect of the party ’s self-confidence is at stake . as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than to treat all forms of collective action as subversive , can be seen as reflecting a growing sense of security .
but it does make a difference whether a good is produced at home or abroad . anti-dumping laws aim to ensure fair trade by preventing the sale of goods below cost . with globalization , it would be natural to extend such principles to the international arena , making it irrelevant whether a producer is domestic or foreign when it comes to judging whether it is engaged in an unfair trade practice . but debates about competition and fair trade again demonstrate the intellectual poverty and the inequity of trade negotiations . within developed countries , such behavior has long been challenged by so-called `` predation '' and well-defined standards .
with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas , a commitment to the wane will be all too easy . if this is to be avoided , continued leadership from the summit , above all from obama and russian president dmitri medvedev , will be indispensable . arms control and disarmament is grinding , unglamorous business that yields few quick returns . but there are many major contributions that less powerful states and leaders , as well as civil-society organizations , can make . but beginning treaty ratification moves nowhere fast in the american senate , and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty to force ; starting negotiations on a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation regime with effective steps to detect violations and deter treaty walk-outs ; reaching an agreement on some form of international management of the fuel cycle ; and above all , beginning with new rounds of serious disarmament , not two nuclear-armed states , but also with two nuclear-armed states .
their interiors resemble those inside a smooth plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold down ; there is no bedding that one can use to strangle oneself . “ that was the investigation , ” he replied . this “ apparent suicide ” seemed immediately suspect . the military investigated the military . i had just toured those cells : it is literally impossible to kill yourself in them .
moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , the unodc is working with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . but gathering information is only one step toward closing loopholes in criminal legislation , and overcoming gaps in prevention policies . decisive policy action , supported by more rigorous enforcement of the relevant laws , is needed to improve the reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries . in south africa , for example , the unodc has established three centers ( in kenya , east cape , and northern cape ) that offer legal attorney and medical care to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . this includes examining male-on-female violence causes and assessing associated risk factors , such as the incidence of drug and alcohol use .
beyond history itself , there is the fact that emerging and developing economies now account for roughly two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just one-third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely a domestic affair . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have increased in the wake of america ’s recent regulatory regulatory regulatory judgements . these findings are not an invitation to embrace indiscriminate risk taking . the main driver of higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon such sovereign bonds offer . adding to the attractiveness of a portfolio of emerging-market sovereign securities , its returns are not perfectly correlated with equity returns .
in countries where non-recourse loans allow borrowers to walk away from mortgages when their value exceeds that home , a housing bust can result in massive defaults and banking crises . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagnation . in countries ( sweden , for example , ) , where recourse loans allow seizure of household incomes to enforce payment of its mortgage obligations , private consumption can plummet as debt payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the recent housing-market train wreck . but the higher home prices rise , the further falling – and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage when the housing bubble deflates .
in this view , the us , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . but the arab world is divided over how to deal with the sudden rise of iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has been warning the us of the dangers of iraq ’s possible collapse , and now finds itself at an unequal face-off with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran , standing up for its sunni arab interests to become a hands-on regional power . other saudis believe that confrontation will only lead to broader wars , and urge dialogue and accommodation .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to end the trade war remains far from clear . after all , both leaders reached a similar deal at the previous g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks ultimately fail , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
when asked to choose between the risk of being known to posterity as a central banker who let a system collapse and the intangible future benefits of pedagogy risk takers a lesson , it does not take genius in forecasting a central banker on the decisions . so , knowing that next time will not be different , the authorities try their best to prevent a “ next time . ” but risk takers have every incentive to try their happiness again , knowing that , at worst , they will be bailed out . democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are both economically or politically important , such as finance or real estate , allowing them to privatize gains , and to socialize losses . even as the authorities insist that the next time will be different , everybody knows that they will make the same choice when confronted with the same choice again .
but , in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what may matter increasingly are transport costs , which means that geography can cause deep regional inequalities . though such disparities can have other causes as well , geography does seem to explain a lot . among large continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has a small segment of the coastline but vast interior regions . when the main object of human consumption was food , this was not an issue , because what mattered was land and water . first , it explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and faster after the country launched its market-oriented reforms and opened up to the world .
fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in 2009 , it would have been hard or impossible to get more money for the troubled asset relief program ( soros ) . this leaves aside another lesson , gained from experience , that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be very passive in increasing lending . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of the sub-prime mortgage cut in aggregate demand ( which the us conducted , and which johnson and soros have not ) fail to heed their claims : the extra spending per dollar of relief was likely to be less than a dime on the dollar of government resources expats . the idea that some version of the soros plan would accelerate growth is both speculative at best . most of the benefit of the us mortgage cut flows to consumers only over time .
keynes ’s dictum has become the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his few to survive ) . because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easily revised ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the economy . rising prices reduce the value of savings and pensions , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , stimulate hoarding , and increase the real burden of debt . governments , according to conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices , with modest bias toward inflation to stimulate businessmen ’ “ animal spirits ” and shoppers . in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of roughly 2 % , in order to provide economies with a price-stability “ anchor . ”
margaret thatcher was always an opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . today , the british appear to be an insuperable obstacle to attainment by the others of a more integrated eu . british hostility to this objective has become increasingly vicious , as john major lost his tory majority in parliament and fell under his own party ’s power . in law , the british can avoid unwelcome developments in the eu because the union is based on the treaty ; therefore , the british have an effective veto over any change in the treaty . in practice , the british have already lost that power , because they demanded , and got , the right to opt out of participating in emu .
princeton – democracy everywhere is facing daunting challenges . the united states is gripped by the most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of recovering national sovereignty is fueling the campaign to leave the eu . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and it is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis . europeans trace their malaise to a democratic deficit in the european union .
persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so , given recent court rulings in the united states that strengthen the hand of holdout investors . given uncertainty about a country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . but there is no superior alternative , either . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for re-profiling . to avoid exciting markets , it would have to be voluntary .
at rukban , the refugee camp on jordan ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 inhabitants each receive barely five liters per day on cooking , drinking , and washing . the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked by sectarian violence and civil war , the country has not functioning government to manage its water resources . in times of scarcity , it is refugees , who are likely to be among the first to feel the effects . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to a minimum – a decision that affects millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures .
first , jgbs ’s volume has soared relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will be exceeded in roughly 3-5 years by jgbs ’s value . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed by taxpayers ’ asset holdings . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditure as pension and health-care costs rise . and , reflecting japanese society ’s aging , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it more difficult for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits .
these are great strides forward , showing that , despite brainwashing and numerous serbs ’ complicity in the crimes of the milosevic regime , democracy and the open society have a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . one key decision facing serbia and its new institutions is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague . much has been happening in yugoslavia recently , much of this surprising . after some procrastination and an early failed attempt , milosevic has been arrested without bloodshed , though not without danger . a peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage conflicts and difficult decisions about independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle such matters by talking rather than fighting .
on the contrary , it should be able to build support for the ecb ’s independence . as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , if necessary , publicly to name and shame . a good central banker must be able to say no to politicians . this does not mean that a ecb president should pick fights whenever possible . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed , indispensible .
it took until last summer to recognize – and even then only to a modest degree – that this aid could be used to support economic recovery . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity that has turned social justice into one of its fundamental goals . europe ’s final mistake was a certain level of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . in principle , greece could count on massive amounts of regional development aid from the european budget , underutilized , owing to a lack of local co-financing .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s debt crisis are all too present throughout much of europe , as distressed economies attempt to stabilize and grow simultaneously . joint financial backstops have been put on hold . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand by the side of the euro . notwithstanding the important decisions taken over the last few years , the reality is that we need to do more to tackle the challenges facing the eurozone . reform and consolidation measures are being pursued across the eu .
in the future , client-service and transaction-management systems will receive more input from customers more often , so that product design is shaped interactively . but the rise of interactive social networking has made it more bottom-up in financial innovation . millions of bank customers using cellphone companies can provide instant feedback on which products and services they like or dislike . the financial industry ’s current strategy drives excess competition by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customers in the face of short-term gains . yet the financial sector has , in previous eras , proved that it can operate as a public good by providing trustworthy , efficient services .
today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not just a consequence of the revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread resistance to the idea that modern states ’ chief function is to slot their peoples into a global marketplace dominated by efficiency and cheapness imperatives , heedless damage to non-economic activities . this sentiment is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . so the unraveling of multi-national states is a false road . the way forward lies in democratic forms of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority for the purposes of statehood while respecting local and regional cultures .
still , one is right to ask whether the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century and , if it does , whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunity . pessimists have said that this has long been the case . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw many – especially many chinese – as having passing the torch . if there is some continuity worth underscoring , it is the regular cohabitation of the boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass is always half full and half-empty . the optimists , touting their gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that americans have never had it so good .
but even as these uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a kind of zero-sum transfer of emotions that is impossible to ignore . in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense the difference between the two cities . london has been bursting with dynamism and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . today , confidence has sucked out of britain through social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future . paris , although undeniably more glamorous , was at risk of becoming a new rome , a prisoner of its past glory at best a place to visit , but not a place to be .
they have become key players in the market , holding about 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts . besides investing large amounts of money , they hold futures contracts for a long time , which might make them less likely to respond to changes in market fundamentals . these speculative investments can strengthen the trend further , pushing futures prices further away from market-equilibrium patterns , especially if many investors follow suit , or those who invest enough funds to influence the market . the index funds are a good example of such powerful investors . empirical evidence yields no clear answer on which hypothesis is right .
president george w. bush is endangering the united states and the safety of the world , while undermining american values . president bush ran on a platform in 2000 promising a “ humble ” foreign policy . for opposing him , i was demonized by bush ’s campaign . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and an invasion of iraq – will be endorsed , and the world will have to live with the consequences . i have never been heavily engaged in partisan politics , but these are not normal times .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also the social institutions that gave shape to their lives . indeed , the changes brought about yugoslavia ’s dissolution and wars of succession that followed annihilated large parts of serbia ’s traditional education and training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . since then , stability and hope have begun to return to a region affected by the devastation of war and widespread despair of social displacement . the results of many projects in these countries are encouraging , with the current focus on training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and young and unemployed . the balkan stability pact of 1999 and massive international support helped to rebuild local education , while developing innovative vocational education and training systems that should boost long-term employment .
in a middle east so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally important state , not a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions go beyond what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who is sleeping , not someone pretending to lie . ” whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not of ignorance . thus , two important steps have been taken : one from iran , which has shown that they understand the challenges they face , and the other by their new president , who has assembled the best team to commit an enormously difficult program . there can be no path from middle eastern ’s agony without participation , commitment , and determination of all parties .
nairobi – with the unemployment rate soaring , bankruptcies climb , and the stock market in free-fall , it may at first sight seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and to put environmental investments on hold . but this would be a devastating mistake of immediate , as is inter-generational , proportions . in the past , concern about the environment was viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity – a point grasped by some , but by no means every , of economic architects yet . a big slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a boost to renewables , “ weatherizing ” one million homes , and upgrading the country ’s ’s ’s ’s inefficient electricity grid . far from burdening an already over-stressed , over-stretched global economy , environmental investments are precisely what is needed to get people back to work , get the order books flowing , and help in powering economies back to health .
we could perhaps all be happy working fewer hours if the decline reflected gradual social progress . but we are not happy with the unemployment that results from a precipitous fiscal crisis . for morale , we need a social compact that finds a purpose for everyone , a way of showing oneself to be a part of society by being a worker of some sort . and for that we need a fiscal stimulus – ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally . that is why sudden austerity can not be a morale builder .
that federal legislation , enacted in june 2016 , has also established the oversight board , with fiscal decision-making authority for america ’s commonwealth . the restructuring process started on may 3 , when the board filed a petition in the federal court . but many crucial decisions have so far been made , such as how much overall debt relief will be delivered and how a “ haircut ” that spreads among holders of different types of bonds . at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be the understanding that just as today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is needed . such decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much it can pay its creditors .
as a result of historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc , which still lacks an inter-governmental organization of asean ’s own . with goodwill on all sides , the real advantages can materialize from building up this informal grouping , as it amounts to a gateway to southeast and northeast asia ’s vast markets . an economic bonus of such an effort across the region would emerge from the opening of direct flights and sea traffic across the taiwan strait . ceagpol could even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean – the “ association of the northeast asian nations . ” the european union is even more instructive , as centuries of war culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century inspired , rather than deter , europe ’s economic , political , and security integration .
many years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article suggesting a way to reduce malfeasance among government employees . we suggested , among other things , that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive higher instead of lower pay than comparable workers get in the private sector . even in europe and the united states , higher-paying officials usually earn much less than individuals with comparable skills and responsibilities in the private sector . in all nations , many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely honest , but low pay does attract into the government service of some rotten apples willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . even some honest officials may become disillusioned , giving a way to many of the temptations to use illicit means , so as to raise their incomes to levels that they deem more appropriate to their responsibilities and training .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea has jeopardized global security , dominating headlines . but the current rules-based international system , with decades in power , remains most gravely threatened by syria ’s civil war . now these risks are at risk of being overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with the confrontation in the united nations security council threatening to subject syria to the pecking order of international problems . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global framework of human rights and humanitarian law is on trial just as good . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of the protests in damascus and other syrian towns , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of syria ’s campaign .
this is true for its financial parameters , too . to be sure , there is an additional feature that many higher education institutions possess , which they can exploit to balance inequities . it will take some time to build up such endowments in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is surely right : universities must be set free . public and private contributions are combined in a variety of ways .
together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i sought to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists have all responded to the same question : what used to be the relative costs of this problem in each year since 1900 all the way to 2013 , with predictions for 2050 . to estimate the magnitude of the problem , it pales in comparison to the total resources available to remedy it . but , rather than picking up facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should try to compare across all areas of human existence to see if the world really does better or worse . using classical economic valuations of everything from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy to wetlands destruction , and heightened hurricane damage from global warming , economists are showing how much each problem costs .
clearly , investment in food production must increase in the medium and longer term . but there is the policy prescription available to leaders today that could help remove supply-side bottlenecks : more trade . this proposal may puzzle some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . trade is the transmission belt through which supply adjusts to demand . it allows food to travel from the land of plenty to lands of little .
with the republicans ’ proposed tax reform , it is threatening to engulf the american economy . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . but the republicans ’ proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most predicted . it avoids necessary reforms , and would leave a country with a mountain of debt ; the consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – take decades to undo . instead , the swamp has grown broader and deeper .
it is common for people to update their view of the world with what they have last seen ; if what they see is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders saw such a world . yet finance can fail in many ways ; lehman collapse is just one . in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation will appear effective . if this cycle is even about right , regulatory fatigue from the fed to make finance safer will soon turn into the regulatory confidence that the last war has now won .
but , with the psychotic label already affixed to their files , whatever they were assumed to be a symptom of their insanity . at best , they would be declared to be “ in remission . ” rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of what steps he takes to alter his detractors ’ minds . even if he stops ranting on twitter or talking in convoluted and incoherent sentences , at best , he will be viewed as being “ in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they have taken to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , and now make diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously .
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges that refugees must confront while they await resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental health care tops the list . it is a challenge that demands more attention not just from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers , who can make indispensable contributions to global public health . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve health-care quality and affordability globally , by developing more rapid methods to diagnosing diseases and deliver medical services . those contributions are highly pertinent to refugees .
over the last 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected more barriers to the use of knowledge , often causing the gap between the social returns to innovation and private returns to widen . the current ip regime is not sustainable , and it is not a necessity . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped that regime clearly put the latter first , reflected in their opposition to provisions acknowledging intellectual-property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . the widespread adoption of today ’s stringent ip protection is also historically unprecedented . even among the early industrializers , ip protection came very late and often was deliberately eschewed to allow for quicker industrialization and growth .
despite the european central bank ’s advent , this asymmetry continues : while the ecb has repeatedly tried to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange interventions , the fed has intervened only once . this has confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . so long as these interests diverge , the us should expect little foreign-exchange policy coordination between the two central banks . during this era , the dollar appreciated strongly against major currencies , and by 1985 was over-valued by virtually every measure . throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed did not intervene at all ( figure 1b ) .
in coming meetings of the g8 ( the club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members -- germany , france , italy , and the united kingdom -- will participate both individually and as the european union members , whose president , too , attends to represent the eu as a whole . the main argument in favor of such change is that joint participation by the eu would increase europe 's weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis the us . regardless of whether these meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme symbolic value : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policy . but should n't the eu possess only a single representative ? after all , a key reason for european integration was precisely to provide a more powerful voice for europe in the international arena .
the idea behind a slippery slope is that if you do x , which is acceptable , you end up doing y , which is not . indeed , two types of slippery slopes – logical and sociological – exist . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning . on the logical slippery slope , you slide to the bottom and embrace morally unacceptable , because there is no way to distinguish it from an acceptable practice . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another , even if the two are conceptually different – just because the existence of one creates a social climate receptive to the other .
suddenly , foreign lenders curtail short-term credit lines . the result is a currency collapse and a wave of bankruptcies . the economy confronts its most severe economic crisis in many decades . a central bank tries to hold the exchange rate , but eventually it is forced to let the currency float . soon , devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerable the economy is to the loss of international confidence .
similarly , rearguard efforts to prove that those who opposed the war in iraq were right , and that both americans and britons wrong , together with demands for `` proof '' that iraqis possessed weapons of mass destruction , are both unconstructive and merely inciting mutual irritation . if russia and the other countries that opposed america 's iraq policy in the un security council really wanted to convince the u.s. not to attack iraq and to defend international law , it was a naive policy doomed to failure . if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the position of its current permanent members , then those actions were more likely to produce the opposite effect . the world might not support the u.s. in its unilateral effort to become the world 's policeman , especially because they may well incite more instability . it is important , however , to realize why it is business in america , and to respond to the core problem of today 's international order .
the change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . unfortunately , this seems likely to come about only with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which seem more inclined to increase their support for president bashar al-assad ’s regime than to work toward denuclearization . the challenge of caring for , employing , and integrating such numbers will soon run up against the limits of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . it is obvious that public policy can not succeed if it is focused on the consequences , rather than the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees a day – the modern day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , partly owing to harsh conditions back home and partly owing to germany ’s willingness to take them in .
more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver – the juniper cobra exercise – was conducted to test israel ’s integration into america ’s ballistic missile defenses . it was a major contribution , they said , to the development of nato ’s planned nato missile shield for europe . both sides seem eager to expand the scope of their partnership , with the goal of reaching a high level of interoperability . israel has also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , contributing to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . american sources have described the drill as “ the most complete aerial missile-defense system , ” we ’ve ever done anywhere in the world .
it is hard to see how the girls could be returned safely . despite talk of a government negotiating a deal with captors , that option , too , would be fraught with danger . it is believed that girls have been split into separate groups , so that any attempt to save one group would imperil others . even if all girls eventually come home , nothing would ever be the same for them or their families . launching a military rescue operation would be highly risky .
the country played according to the “ rules ” of financial markets , and managed to finalize restructuring quickly ; but the deal was bad and did not help the economy recover . three years later , greece is in dire need of a new restructuring . distressed debtors need a fresh start . the absence of the rule of law for debt restructuring delays fresh fresh and can lead to chaos . excessive sanctions lead to a negative-sum game in which the borrower can not recover , and creditors do not benefit from the larger repayment capacity that the recovery entails .
anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive and in short supply . or perhaps they would be sold on the black market to enrich corrupt government officials . a politically flawed but rational strategy would be for wealthy countries to devote resources to the developing world mainly for surveillance . we would expect to see a great deal of illnesses among both employees and patients in hospitals where victims are treated , and soon someone ( perhaps even a non-ill carrier ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . history suggests that if we were to make these drugs available to poor countries for the ring of prophylaxis , they would often be administered improperly , such as in suboptimal doses , in ways that promote viral resistance and merely intensify a pandemic .
given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute above-average resources , on average , to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even when immigrants work and pay taxes and social-security contributions . the best solution is to make western labor markets flexible by opening a system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . but even with such measures , the social benefits can artificially increase the incentive to migrate . if workfare replaces welfare , wages become more flexible , enabling the eu ’s labor markets to absorb migrants more efficiently . if migrants gain welfare benefits beyond wages , more will be lured into coming than needed , and marginal migrants would create welfare losses for the eu on equal terms .
president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . but , with their government unable to do anything about the prevalence of israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continuing conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , west bank palestinians are extremely frustrated . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of ongoing resistance to israeli rule . the palestinian authority , which runs the west bank , fears that a popular , nonviolent intifada might quickly turn violent . if so , israel might use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly built institutions .
a developing economy can slow prematurely , when externalities change the conditions underpinning growth . wages continue to rise , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies ; but the growth model is not yet equipped to stimulate competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation . to avoid such an outcome , li must adapt china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , aging populations , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and diminished import demand in the west , makes reform even more urgent . li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , does not sink into a lethargy and fall into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ”
but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not be able simply to swoop in and implement his agenda . in fact , with his democratic party holding only 40 % of the national assembly ’s 299 seats , he will have to win support from centrist parties , and even the conservative opposition . to succeed , moon will need to reexamine the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the most visible pitfalls . moreover , he will need broader public backing . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the main problem to consider is the long-term financial burden that such large-scale hiring could create .
according to centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of children aged 6-11 in the us are not just overweight but obese . the causes of obesity are complicated , and the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; but it is not an hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . it is hard for non-profits to compete for the production values embodied in the beyoncé ’s pepsi commercial or taylor , swift ’s diet coke commercial . and , for every celebrity who donates time to fight obesity , there are a dozen who accept large payments to hawk products , such as ultra-sugary drinks , which are arguably the tobacco of our generation . pediatric television programs are replete with advertisements for processed foods of dubious human health .
new powers like china and india are rising , not risen , mixing assertiveness with an emphasis on their continued “ development ” status . but america today is on the back foot , economically , and militarily . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , is struggling to solve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player . so no one is in charge . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s states and peoples are more intertwined than ever as ideas , information , finance , migrants , and issues flow ever more seamlessly across borders .
no doubt , recovery in the uk began more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also little doubt that the uk ’s recovery picked up accelerated after 2012 . last year , its gdp growth rate was the highest in the g-7 . according to the imf , only the american economy will grow faster over the next four years , with the uk then recovering the lead . and per capita gdp must surely be preferable to aggregate gdp .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter that lies solely between man & his god . ”
we are making progress on both issues , but much work remains . bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement , and calls on relationships that have been built and maintained over decades , as well as alliances with new partners . but , by overcoming the differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are reinforcing support for a global order grounded in collective solutions to shared problems . i have spoken personally with more than 50 foreign leaders , and we all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we stop the devastation in west africa and halt the spread of ebola .
consider the example of an american corporate subsidiary that earns profits in iran . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in ireland , in financial securities , or in operating businesses anywhere in the world – with the exception of america . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to the u.s. to invest or distribute it to its shareholders , it must pay america ’s current corporate tax rate of 35 % on its original pretax irish earnings , with credit equal to 12 % that it already paid . because of this 23 % penalty for repatriation , u.s. companies generally choose not to repatriate the profits of its foreign subsidiaries . that subsidiary pays the irish corporate tax at ireland at its low 12 % rate .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
but moving toward a carbon-neutral economy also offers far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy , europe can boost its own technological innovations and deploy carbon pricing , and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost output in china and elsewhere . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument of mobilizing massive stores of capital for investment in infrastructure , research , and development , as well as other core areas . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” ” europe can secure greater economic independence from other powers , and by starting to establish the euro as a global currency . the problem does not observe national borders , and thus requires collective global action .
partly in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced reserve-currency capitalism that produced spectacular economic progress . and , like the us economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . a little over 60 years ago , india remained the british empire ’s crown jewel . today sees that the wider world , particularly the west , regards it with growing respect , not only for the country ’s performance , but also for its essence – a young country , and that is also an ancient civilization . fifty years ago , if you sought to read about india in the west , you would mostly find books about spirituality .
and , as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have little choice but to come together to defend our interests . what we will have is a power vacuum marked by chaos . a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she has been calling for a stronger europe . merkel knows that if the american people sacrifices its place at the very top of the international order for domestic political reasons , she will neither be replaced by a new leadership power nor a new global order emerge .
the point is that questions like , “ are we producing too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . the upshot is that whenever a problem gets left out of hand , a turnaround comes too late , and a dramatic one . this is one reason why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a democratic transition has become inevitable : the party simply loses control of the country .
in south africa , the south african development community , after a shaky start , is pushing ahead with joint projects of which transport infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme . less spectacularly , but perhaps more important in the long run , ecowas laid the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the establishment of the single currency now a stated objective . indeed , a host of interesting practical moves in this direction are underway , though not all of them are pursuing the original regional course set by their founders . the west african states ’ economic community ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly demonstrated both the will and the capacity to raise combat forces to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . east african countries are also propelling the integration projects ahead , and seem to have learned from the region ’s past failures , which were the result of hastily constructed , improper , and overly ambitious
but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already striking . so where is this demand-driven growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into bankruptcy than in promoting higher employment . with private-sector demand stalling , the governing commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already striking .
new york – in his remarkable apology to ireland ’s catholics ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests are tempted to commit sex acts with children . it was because of “ new and serious challenges to the faith arising from the rapid transformation and secularization of irish society . ” and iran is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . as we know , the abuse of children by catholic priests has not only occurred in ireland , but in many other countries too , something the pope has preferred not to dwell upon . fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values .
such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular . egypt ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect of the peninsula . last august , the israelis authorized an additional seven battalions and 20-tank in zone c. c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought full force , and did not even bother to transport tanks across the suez canal . historically , it deployed just 70-80 % of 22,000 soldiers to the treaty allows in zone a. and army never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted .
not surprisingly , given such a model , many men want to participate as well . their home page shows a smiling young managing manager based in chile , with the company pushing to enlist women in the palestinian territories – not for ideological reasons but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . “ thirty percent of women in many countries in the middle east have university degrees ; ” zaleski explains ; but they often can not obtain jobs commensurate with their training on cultural grounds . “ thirty percent of women in many middle eastern countries have university degrees , ” ” zaleski explains , but they often can not get jobs commensurate with their training on cultural grounds . the founders do not rule out the eventually extension of to address that need .
no one elected monti , of course , and his position is fragile and contested , but there is a positive near-consensus that enabled him to launch long-overdue structural reforms . so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe – ten rational arguments to convince pessimistic analysts , and worried investors alike that it is highly premature to bury the euro and the eu altogether . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship goes back to europe , even if in homeopathic doses . it is too early to forecast the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . but , in italy , one person , mario monti , is already making a difference .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
but america has not provided this – a point recently made by jeb bush , a leading contender for the republican presidential nomination in 2016 . many of these choices turned out badly , largely because information technology ( computers and how they are used ) has eliminated many middle-class jobs . children whose families can not provide a decent start in life deserve help . increasing the globalization of trade also did not help in this regard . moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , prolonged periods of adult unemployment have had a severe and lasting negative impact on their children .
in most european countries , action to spur private-sector investment in local services and transportation – both large sectors – should be considered as well . but governments need to understand investment barriers : regulatory failure ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technology . and they must commit to rigorous cost-benefit analyses , to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that fosters productivity growth . here is the execution level – that governments often perform poorly . too often , they spend money to encourage private-sector projects that fail to provide a positive return to the broader economy .
here is where the connection between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty – as many are – they are demanding more meat and dairy . this trend holds grave implications for agriculture ’s ecological footprint . cows are releasing large volumes of heat-trapping methane , with the largest reserves . and clearing land for pasture releases carbon dioxide at a staggering rate . animals consume more food than they produce .
for example , they must balance the fight against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase educational access , or tackle corruption . the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansionary mandate . the leaders of such organizations must make complicated choices in allocating finite resources . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : to lift people out of poverty and foster sustainable development . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have worked for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have oversaw my post-conflict economic revitalization of my own .
berlin – europe ’s established left is facing the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . on a continent long defined by democratic competition between center-right and center-left parties , the collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond particular party interests . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of the most important reasons is as grim as it is simple : european voters increasingly oppose immigration and do not trust the left to curb it .
it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower costs involved in the extraction of us shale gas . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s principal strategic rival , china , which is becoming increasingly dependent on middle eastern energy supplies . america is expected to become an energy self-sufficient in 2020 , and to become an oil exporter by 2030 . this scenario would grant the american people three enormous perks to the us .
the gap between their objective analysis of reality and government policies has become a chasm . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide in incomes and other indicators between some affluent cities – which benefit from globalization – and the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact tax cuts based on where one lives . as a result , france is now reallocating 1 % of france ’s gdp first to the poorest parts of the country . traditional parties could also learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than just through media filters and pollsters .
let ’s suppose that the experience of a visiting or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that time , which means , in effect , an extra hour spent in notre dame , or , in recalling one ’s visit , is just as good as the extension of one ’s life by a hour . whatever the gilets jaunes may advocate , it is becoming apparent that we could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in low - and middle-income countries than we could by spending it in france . so , how many lives is that is worth the cost ? suppose that we ’re saving the lives of people who would live 60 more years ; the 9980 ’s annual benefit is equivalent to saving 150 lives per year . that ’s a significant number of lives , but now we need to ask how many € 1 billion of annual benefits could be saved .
in fact , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to reducing carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 to achieve the goals of the 2015 paris climate agreement , as the battering ram against the schwarze null . but gaining serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals does not have to imply larger budget deficits . on september 20 , the german government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of spending measures to cut emissions . spending on such priorities as energy and the environment can be useful . in the us , such a package would be called a green new deal .
any economist who seems to question the benefits of trade openness risks banishment , so let me be clear : i do not question the standard version of the gains-from-trade theory , but the extravagant , unwarranted claims made about the consequences of openness . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of the true article , because it unleashes expectations uneasily . in the real world , opening up is not the simple matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment . it demands a heavy doses of institutional reform that consumes both financial , bureaucratic , and political resources . while many institutional reforms are development-friendly , they may not be focused on key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capabilities , poverty alleviation – and , on occasion , divert attention from them .
to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , seas must be a rigorous , credible , and transparent process . this means that they must be governed by well-regulated , impartial professionals . this is because , as it stands , technical specialists typically conduct seas at project developers ’ behest , a practice that , as activists have repeatedly emphasized , is grossly unethical . but , as the examples cited above reveal , seas do not fulfill their purposes reliably . with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on only superficial appraisal of ecological and market value in affected ecosystems , it should be no surprise that damaging projects are often approved , despite failing to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidelines .
nowadays , by contrast , many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . prior to the crisis , regulators focused mainly on removing trading barriers , and generally favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering more faster , cheaper trading of a wider variety of financial claims . that is no longer the case , but it is not the case now . but there are signs that these assumptions are now being challenged . might such ease and efficiency not fuel market instability , and serve intermediaries ’ interests rather than their clients ?
following arduous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for the violence could be prosecuted . central authorities seemed to sense an immediate need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control efforts . and xinhua wasted no time in claiming that the abuses were confined to a few towns . nonetheless , the central government institutions did little to halt the intimidation of linyi villagers .
overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger a sudden reversal of capital inflows , with a severe dollar shortage – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the fed ’s single-minded suggestion of a potential move toward reducing its purchases of long-term assets ( so-called quantitative easing ) caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . they also understate asian economies ’ need for stronger financial-safety nets . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , as failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily on emerging asian economies . tighter american monetary policy could intensify global credit shortages , fueling pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems .
this partly explains enduring popular devotion to rulers like joseph stalin . but now delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . the question today is not about next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been fixed . for many russians , if not most , the authority figure embodies the powers that control everything that matters in life ; they support it , regardless of the policies he implements , because there is no alternative to doing otherwise . with the presidential term now extended to six years , we can expect an encore lasting up to twelve years – longer than putin ’s indigenous performance .
but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect the accidental president with overweening powers , an underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown has been that most of its ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) have been defectors from the old regime . the old regime ’s adherents can more easily trick the newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process is exceedingly fast . the other major gshortcoming was that the orange revolution leader , viktor yushchenko , turned out to be a feckless and irresponsible president . initially , he traveled the world for months to celebrate his victory , ignoring chaos back home . then he started vetoing virtually all of his government ’s decisions , causing a political stalemate , and , toward ending his presidency , tacitly joining the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , voted against the constitution ) .
given this mindset , performance was not a relevant criterion for judging public-sector utility . the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public service as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persists . inefficiencies were masked by the national treasury ’s generous subsidies , and by a combination of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , trade unions , and monopolies – kept it beyond political criticism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in the indian hands , and not in the hands of indians seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather in a disinterested hands of the state , father , and mother to all indians . indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism .
but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , not algorithms or ai-enabled software . technology alone can not encourage democracy , help to answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by boosting accountability . potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is just as noble a cause as , say , cervical cancer research . with the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly apparent , many media leaders – close to one-third , according to reuters ’s survey – believe that , in future foundations and non-profits will play a central role in supporting the media . for organizations without clout – and digital revenue – of the times , a people-centered approach can also be needed to secure investment .
a possible key to mutual confidence would be for the democrats to hold a crucial finance ministry , while m5s appoints the prime minister . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could start to tip the balance . not surprisingly , then , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , rushed to italy to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition he called the “ ultimate dream , ” ” ” because it would break the eu . a pro-eu italy governed by a m5s-democrat coalition could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; regain a clear foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis the us , russia , and brazil ; and implement a green , innovation-based strategy . to forge such a coalition , m5s would need to adopt a responsible and clearly defined economic program ; and the democrats would have to accept being the junior partner of an untested insurgent force .
but the decision to impose capital punishment remains highly subjective . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted out depends on several variables , beginning with the judiciary and social biases . my statements were also motivated by problems in how capital punishment is imposed in india . and , indeed , the last three executions in the country have stemmed from terrorist offenses that are threatened or taken by large numbers of lives . the supreme court has declared that the death penalty must be applied only in “ rarest of the rare ” cases .
the longer-term effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound saving . during the last tightening cycle between 2004 and 2006 , households ’ interest income rose by 29 % . and the average hourly pay of all employees on private non-farm payrolls posted an annual growth rate of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families holding their hard-earned savings at the bank will finally start realizing some return on their deposits . while this time , the gains probably will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and scale of fed tightening , the interest paid on savings will move household income in the right direction : up .
beijing – most western media have characterized the communist party of china ’s recent 19th national congress ( cpc ) as a pure power play , with president xi jinping entrenching his post . but the accumulation of political capital in this case is a means to an end . for xi , that end represents a smooth transition to modernity that cements the cpc ’s long-term authority and ensures its own legacy as a modern china ’s most important leader . xi knows that if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , it will need to manage , deftly , a major social and economic transformation , while , even more important , improving state governance . and , in order to secure china ’s long-term survival as a one-party system , he must reform the state and party institutions ; indeed , political reform is a prerequisite for economic reform .
another question is how much revenues should be channeled , and how remittances can be effected in a country as large , complex , and financially backward as nigeria . but , even with all the difficulty of corruption and inefficiency , which will no doubt plague its actual implementation , our proposal is superior to the status quo . after all , the horrendous conditions today are the result of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . the time to act now is now . at best , our proposal could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thus transform economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come .
the recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and lack of financial data that can not be ignored . the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ? this can not be answered in the abstract , because every situation is different . financial markets are best understood as a historical process , and history never quite repeats itself . financial-market fragility can cause severe economic and social dislocations .
indeed , sars ’s experience at toronto , where cases escaped detection and resulted in a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control of larger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . indeed , these epidemics may be fully eradicated in the coming months . screening travelers from affected regions may have avoided major epidemics elsewhere . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will continue or be reintroduced into human populations from animals . health officials around the world should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that renewed control efforts will be required if sars resurfaced .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum for tackling transparency in resource revenues , while unnecessarily reinventing the wheel in the process . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles available to achieve a global standard of disclosure and accountability . nor have the us and britain used its power in iraq to promote transparency in the oil sector . it is hard to see how democracy can take root if a country ’s most important income source remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . let us hope that the new iraqi government does a better job .
tales about israel focus almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; a lionization of uncomparably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique . joyce karam , the washington state bureau of pan-arab newspapers al-hayat , believes that this is because “ muslim killing muslims or arab killing the arab world looks more acceptable than israel killing arabs . ” this is not to say that israel should be consoled by israel ’s macabre arithmetic of bloodshed . there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability to many developing countries . yet , whether driven by narrow ideology or responding to demands for special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization within its bilateral trade agreements . the second concerns the unbalanced intellectual property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks , dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . these provisions restricted countries from making generic imitations of drugs , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries . spearheaded by worries about aids , activists around the world demanded that something be done .
as matters stand , the shipping sector ranked alongside countries is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . such efforts are vital to reach the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . now that the cap is coming into force , we will soon benefit from the extraordinary effects of a new , durable global health dividend . we can expect to see the data in the coming years indicating reduced health-care costs and improved educational outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , governments will be collaborating on additional measures to reduce the environmental and climate impact of the global ocean trading system .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives worldwide thus might be interested in learning the four tricks that american politicians commonly use when promising to cut taxes while simultaneously cutting budget deficits . but each of the four tricks has been refined over three decades . indeed , they first acquired their colorful biases in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : a “ charm asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” a “ rosy scenario , ” ” ” ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve the beast ” scenario . these are tough promises to keep , for the simple reason that a us budget deficit equals government spending minus tax revenue .
so which : are banks still at risk ? or has post-crisis regulatory reform done its job ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments will bail out the largest banks , rather than allow them to collapse and damage the economy . second , and worse , being too big to fail helps big banks grow even larger , because lenders and trading partners prefer working with banks that have an implicit government guarantee .
in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration offering further support to the region on the condition that the region ’s countries request it . the participants in chicago will have major differences over these issues . but a reinventing nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily occur in small steps . the alliance ’s core goal must be to ensure that they are steps forward . while it is impossible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its ability to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa .
in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred the policies of the hydra-headed perónist justicialist party , which privatized state companies in the 1990s only to re-nationalize them later . argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an training engineer , is often described in the center-right international press . moreover , “ center-right ” often means “ conservative , ” european , and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve ” the status quo . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” in the european sense of the word . but that label is by no means correct .
most recently , immense studies analyzing the effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on breast cancer risk of brca1/mutation carriers , including soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases of familial breast cancer , however , genetic predisposition remains elusive . we have also learned that only 20-40 % of the breast cancers that cluster in families come from the brca1 or brca2 germline mutations , gene alterations present from birth in every body and can be transmitted to offspring . women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancer , while the increased risk of developing ovarian cancer is about 55 % for women with the brca1 mutations , and about 25 % for women with brca2 mutations . increased breast cancer risk is also known to be associated with several inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition further associated with the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors .
xi ’s government is struggling to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of that domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to lead global change will lack a clear vision and a coherent strategy . a second problem stems from china ’s incomplete transition on the world stage . after prevailing in world war ii , the american people immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . in seeking to lead the next phase of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
as a result , we are one of the few countries that is ready to exceed our commitments under the paris climate agreement . and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackle problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our single most important asset . our commitment to tackling climate change is based on an understanding of the tremendous health risks and costs that arise from inaction . costa rica is proud to take global leadership by putting this approach into practice .
there is now real hope that the talks along these lines can succeed . but there is a major obstacle to the easing of tensions : the united states ’ proposed $ 6.5 billion sell-off by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . china-us talks on defense cooperation earlier this year stalled , owing to such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , the olive branch has sent to the obama administration by china ’s congress . promote china ’s ’s traditional civilization , with its enhanced spiritual ties .
and ignatieff has received some backing , at least initially . it is now time to win some support in brussels . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government of the so-called “ ceu law , ” which the university said was intended to force it out of the country . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff could have said , “ i have the support i have in washington . i support in berlin .
one survey showed that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat the effects of stroke , with 63 % of doctors surveyed believing it to be effective . some 36 % of chinese doctors consider the effectiveness of acupuncture to remain uncertain , perhaps because the scientific basis for it remains so new . recently , however , the systematic scientific study of acupuncture ’s effects in such treatment began . for example , most chinese doctors and patients long regarded acupuncture as an effective stroke treatment , using it to improve the motor , speech , and other functions that has been destroyed . almost all of the trials on acupuncture as a stroke treatment conducted within china have been positive .
economists also had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidity , an artifact of 1960-70s , when organized labor was much stronger . in fact , declining labor force may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . but , even more important , it could be the reason that measured productivity remains persistently weak . clearly , the idea that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or workers ’ hours ) no longer applies . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – especially the eurozone – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets .
so it is crucial to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential , which requires educational opportunities for all . but there need not be a trade-off between inequality and growth . a modern economy also requires risk-taking . governments can enhance growth by increasing inclusiveness . a country of the most value resource is its people , and its people are the ones we need .
this can lead patients to consent to procedures that they do not understand or want . the problem is compounded when consent is obtained just hours before a major operation , and months after the surgeon ’s last consultation . consent should not be snatched away , like a train ticket held out for the conductor . this haughty attitude resonates with the jargon of “ consenting a patient ” – as though it was something done to a patient , like drawing blood or administering the injection : “ dr. smith , please go on with consent to mr. jones . instead , consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he or she can opt for relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case .
so far , this abundance of choice has discouraged companies from spending resources on training employees , who might soon decide to join a competitor . as talent shortages have loom , however , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward greater investment in professional development . those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , better able to manage their careers , and command higher pay . those without in-demand skills are struggling , and feel disposable . employers that provide learning opportunities become a destination for talent .
similar to traditional military-command-and-control protocols , they acquire power in numbers , and can quickly respond to a broad array of attacks . such a digital ecosystem reinforces checks and balances , reduces the possibility of failure , and mitigating the effects of an incursion . in such a forward-looking scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about the networks of computers fighting each other , while humans stand by . it would portray the broader idea of the “ singularity , ” ” ” ” a hypothetical turning point when man-made surpasses human . fortunately , in this case , life remains far from imitating art .
it is precisely for this reason that we need to ensure dfft and turn the data into public goods for researchers worldwide . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the members of the “ science20 , ” ” a term coined by the g20 countries ’ national science academies . on april 30 , the world witnessed the abdication by its majesty the emperor emeritus akihito , the first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 years . the g20 summit in osaka is coming at the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – in japan . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of an enhanced data storage and management system , ” which ensures open access to scientists globally , ” and the “ sharing information gained through research activities undertaken under extensive and multinational collaborative action , expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean , and its dynamics .
by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand identities and luring talent , investment , and businesses from around the world . to be sure , today ’s cities are facing multiple challenges . the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously observed that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . cities power growth through innovation , trade , and exchange , among others . and city services are often more visible to citizens than federal aid ; consider , for example , who responds during a traffic accident or a natural disaster .
two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas la. friedman , the author of the world is flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trade practices . still , one would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict is being brought on solely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict is being brought on solely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . the danger is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would jeopardize global prosperity ; it is that these developments also raise the risk of a major political confrontation . if this is where the previous ideological high cleric of globalization now stands , china is confronted against not just trump ’s america , but liberal america , too .
in small-state settings , imposing a dense network of controls is likely to lead to the loss of mobile factors of production , while making it harder for labor or capital to flee . on the international stage , big states are trying to make international rules and often build their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape a wider world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing globalization . ” small states ’ nervousness and fear began to increase roughly in 2000 . the new political realities were highlighted by the war in iraq , china ’s ’s quest for energy resources in the developing world , and russia ’s foreign and domestic policy assertiveness . instead of accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all of its imperfections , they think , they can use their weight to change the rules – in their favor .
a law restricting transportation strikes on january 1 , and sarkozy plans to break the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 . instead of repealing the law , overtime work is to become easy and relatively cheap . this opens the way to more and deeper reforms . democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy .
with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has in the us ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing the eurozone ’s financial-sector reforms is actually more difficult . governments regard domestic banks as important buyers of us sovereign debt . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and it will likely hamper efforts to put the european economy on a sounder footing . the banks argue that more effective regulation would stifle credit and slow the pace of economic recovery . as a result , authorities in germany and france ( as well as japan ) have consistently resisted increasing capital requirements , despite the widespread agreement that doing so is an essential part of effective re-regulation .
this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that comprised the former . but , even with ideas , the tactics are the same . to consolidate support , thatcher would go head-to-head with carefully selected enemies – from british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy put it recently , “ bannon wants to radicalize the anti-trump liberals ’ struggle for causes that alienate them from mainstream america . ” every time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , forging trump ’s core support base .
the two weeks since taiwan 's disputed presidential election of march 20 -- only the third such democratic vote in the country 's history -- have tested this truism almost to the breaking point . while canvassing for votes in its hometown of south taiwan on the eve of the election , president chen and vice president annette lu got both injured by an assassin 's bullet . young democracies may turn out to be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as political opponents . sympathizers this secured a president his razor-thin margin of victory -- with just 50.1 % of the popular vote -- over lien chan , the kuomintang party 's candidate and people 's first party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition . taiwan 's young democracy must now cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian 's re-election thrust upon it .
in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as a twofer . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still does little better than mexico . but raising russia ’s standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his longstanding legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his grand promise , made in 2003 to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy failed , because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed from the top .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance to become his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva was to theirs : a man of the left who moves toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected in the midst of an economic crisis . on assuming power , kim and lula were able to adjust , politically and mentally , to the new realities confronting them , launching much-needed reforms . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) , and perhaps were not possible under right-wing politicians . both immediately confronted the international financial constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore .
but history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , the deaths of more than 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . this has not stopped modi from taking political risks , beginning with his assertion that indian toilets require more than temples . but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , because it tests his national appeal . though the supreme court has cleared him from all personal wrongdoing , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it difficult for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . annual economic growth in the state averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed for lee kuan yew .
on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp per year . perhaps this can be countered by private-sector dynamism , but even there , fear of losing control increases the party ’s role . a chinese businessman told me that real growth is less than half the official figure . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance ; the eu is simply discouraging initiative . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit .
meanwhile , turkey and the united states have mutual interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . for better or worse , the status quo in the middle east has unraveled , and turkey must rethink and recalibrate its regional policies . turkey ’s real strengths are its thriving economy , a secular democratic system , and the ability to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream . but , as turkey builds closer relations with the us and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with a more assertive russia , which is keen to demonstrate itself in the middle east and eastern mediterranean , and to maintain its foothold in syria . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the broader transformation of its neighborhood .
with almost two million patients now on antiretroviral treatment , annual aids-related deaths have fallen by around 100,000 since 2005 . these remedies have reduced the rate of new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , especially aged 15-49 , continues to rise ) . another important factor has been improved integration of treatment plans . the government has aligned its early antiretroviral treatment programs for existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 with early monitoring programs for pregnant women . contagion among newborn babies once running at about 70,000 per year has been cut by some 63 % , and the lives of hundreds of millions of hiv/aids sufferers have been prolonged .
astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down a new bone , by producing a substance that inhibits cells that break bone cells , and encourages those that produce bone and cartilage . but this can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia is conserved , so that current and future researchers ’ generations can make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider the polar bear , threatened by climate change with wild extinction . these mammals spend up to seven months of the year hibernating , during which time they are essentially immobile . a human would lose a third or more of a bone mass , when immobile for this period .
there is a strong argument as well for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has come under attack , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense . yet this is not only europe ’s fight , or that of the united states . the whole alliance should commit itself to the defeat of terrorism . this is about the global order in a stable and prosperous world . but they need stronger support – not just in the air or arms and training , but also from western special forces .
after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe currently grappling with the question of how much europe it wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and how much social solidarity is appropriate . now the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly includes existential questions about europe ’s survival and the entire european project . this means that the candidates in next year ’s us election are unlikely to focus on domestic issues alone . while there will probably be some of it , for the first time in the eu , extensive discussion of europe ’s future and policies – particularly in areas like migration , defense , and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia – is likely to be widespread . these debates – and thus the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to adhere to the standards of the standard party .
the question should not have been about how to deregulate quickly , but about how to develop the right regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and host in other things that even the best performing market economies can not satisfy . • while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , weak government impedes growth , because weak states can not provide laws and order , can not enforce contracts , and can not ensure a safe , sound banking system . market failures are a fact of life , but so , too , are government failures . after all , it was too little regulation – capital and financial-market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and america ’s federal reserve – that led to the 1997 financial crisis .
an interest-rate hike pleases savers , whereas a rate cut is a boon for borrowers . they certainly do , but so what ? any and all monetary-policy action redistribute wealth . importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak one . to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different effects on different groups at different times .
in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than it might seem . nominal wages may rise , while real wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . and even real wage increases on the national level will not undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity grows still faster . even if real wages rise in some coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . so the conclusion seems to be that wage growth does not threaten china ’s competitiveness over the next ten or even 20 years .
to judge whether their price is “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , we must look at the trade balance . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the existing exchange rate , germany was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . germany ’s exports have exceeded its imports by nearly $ 200 billion in the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to nearly 6 % of gdp . clearly , germany ’s net exports would remain high even if the euro appreciated substantially from its current level .
he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma , as well as on scare tactics . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodation involving territorial concessions . in the weeks leading up to the elections , the public appeared to have grown weary of a prime minister who has been long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . these structural elements have been reinforced by developments in the region , which have amplified the sense among israeli voters that they are threatened by numerous enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas , and its missiles ; the rise of isis amid state failure in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . clearly , netanyahu ’s victory has been an impressive personal comeback .
throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best plans can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience has shown . four billion barrels of oil have been discovered off ghana ’s coasts in 2007 , and production began in 2010 . but , with last year ’s presidential election , the situation has begun to deteriorate . the next year , the petroleum revenue management act has divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists around the world ( including the us ) . investment should therefore be gradual , which may mean temporarily storing some oil wealth abroad .
in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on a lack of transparency in financial markets . but when developing countries pointed their fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and us enthusiasm for greater transparency has diminished . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , and secret bank accounts have flourished . but there are some large differences between then and now . most developing countries have accumulated massive foreign currency reserves , and the international monetary fund .
in any case , the hardships suffered by eu citizens could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s definitive prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to compensate for reform and fiscal consolidation in others . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence to retain influence in ukraine . looking to the ecb , they will find the right model for deploying them . by selectively tackling the most dangerous risks , draghi has been able to minimize them .
think of the appeal of films like thelma and louise , or working girl in which a leading character is gutsy , exploited secretary who , trampled by a snooty female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to end jobs , a dream guy , and a corner office . so , when sarah palin is escorted into the media limelight , she is becoming a symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , exhausted factory workers , and secretaries . while reports surface that palin has told a group of african americans not to hire black people , working-class white women often understand her own experience in terms of racial hostility . they perceive an underclass that they receives the benefits denied to them , and a thriving developing world economy that siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs . to see working-class white women be picked up to serve a heartbeat away from an american president resonates powerfully with them .
the american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book , the codependency of china and america ties them together inextricably . already , china has been delivering on that front , by abandoning a growth model that has successfully guided the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic development for more than 30 years . recognizing the need to shift from a model that focused mainly on exports – as well as investment-led production ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( through services ) . that change gives china a far better chance to avoid the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” which ensnares most other developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that the recipe for early-stage takeoff growth is sufficient to achieve developed-country status .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will meet in kiel , germany for the global economic symposium ( ges ) to attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . while these solutions have some merit , they are insufficient to address effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that led to the global financial crisis of 2007-2009 . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . the crisis has represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving breakdowns at almost all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level institutional incentives . at last year ’s summit , the central-banking dialogues in the future that pitted inflation targeting against financial stability have produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a counter-cyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary goals .
in particular , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win large , with the global tech stock boom augmenting their gains . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities , while hampering smaller players ’ capacity to compete . piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has spawned an winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically sophisticated actors have acquired market share through economies of scale . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household savings .
prevention , however , must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceed the ability of individual countries — and the international community — to counter such flows . this phenomenon was all too evident during the asian crisis , and following the russian sovereign-debt default of august 1998 . many countries lack foreign-currency reserves sufficient to meet sudden and large capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . sometimes these outflows can occur through no fault of the affected country , but as a result of financial-market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere .
like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . it is a decision being taken virtually independently of prime minister tony blair and even against his wishes . most commentators have tended to assume that if that is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later , that is what will happen , because , after all , he is prime minister . blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because it wants britain to be , as it puts it , “ at the heart of europe . ” the only question now in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite yet , ” “ not before the next election , ” or just plain “ no . ”
trump ’s rejection of a “ reasoned discourse , ” including commitments of truth and evidence , has been accompanied by an unlimited “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and to play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . ” but what can stop the demons that have already been unleashed ? the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s current problems are worsening and enormous opportunities are being missed . there was some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn clearly a white supremacist protesters in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the right ” rally in august ended in the murder of a counterprotester . and , while stopped , can the damage that has already wrought be reversed ?
finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for the average childcare cost . that might seem widely beneficial , but it would help only those at high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions , most middle-income households above $ 75,000 ( median us household income was $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is no indication of how any of his tax policies would be financed , and each indication that they would sharply expand the budget deficit . indeed , there is no indication of how any of his tax policies would be financed , and each indication that they would sharply expand the budget deficit .
when young people attend courses , access laptops , or book rooms at rlabs cafes , they earn zlato credit that can be exchanged for food , health care , and basic necessities . and in south africa , marlon parker , the founder of the social innovation academy and incubator rlabs , has created a virtual currency , called zlato to encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the root cause of migration on both – and off – the continent . since its inception in 2008 , portends have created tens of thousands of jobs , and are now active in 24 countries . entrepreneurs backed through the anzisha prize , for example , have created more than 300 jobs and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital .
avoiding that scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . but this would upset hardline brexiteers , and may split the conservative party , the risk that theresa may has been reluctant to take . british leaders need to acknowledge that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and that the country urgently needs a national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences . but then scotland would demand its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , putting the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup and possibly dissolution . the choice is between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether .
the country has also received $ 70 billion in remittances last year , more than double inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect to the pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by state governments ’ many parallel seminars to attract expatriate investment . the importance of diaspora financing – from working-class indians ’ remittances , which have transformed kerala ’s countryside into the millions poured into high-technology businesses in bangalore , or gurgaon by silicon valley investors – simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . but the us should not be outdone : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than overseas chinese do in china . encouraging them to do more , and giving them reason to do more , is surely a worthwhile task for india ’s government – and an overt objective of its annual conclave .
firms that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulties in recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or climate-change-related costs . apple , for example , has recently been shaken up by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to concerns among customers , employees , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions , agreeing to periodic reviews by an independent observer . there are now mobile phone apps that evaluate and grade large multinational companies ’ supply chains for customers , investors , and public officials . companies that score poorly risk losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or regulatory action .
the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent high-profile published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of the increase in the saving rate as chinese substituted capital investment for infant investment . but income growth and demographics do not explain everything ; they , too , tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage high savings . they also tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage high savings . for example , the uptrend in saving in china began at around the same time as its one-child policy implemented in 1979 . this prevented the birth rate from rebounding following the 1966-76 cultural revolution .
while the concept is modern , the idea is not new . in the 1930s , a former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , the crusty old veteran of the american civil war , took to meet with franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate but one who was not a distinguished student . asked later about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ” most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his emotional than on his analytical iq . the practical people had long understood its importance in leadership , and the world was given .
since sudan won the united kingdom ’s independence in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by an almost constant civil war based on north-south cultural and religious divide . matters have subsequently been complicated by a separate conflict – this time among muslims – over resources in the west darfur region . the artificial fusion of the mainly arab , muslim north sudan , and the african south , where christianity and the traditional animist beliefs have been predominant , has been an abject failure . a separate but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei allows voters to choose if they are willing to join the north or the south . if an non-muslim south gained independence from a large degree of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , it is inconceivable that the country could have remained at peace .
normally , they were formulated in an acceptable manner , asking me to “ look into ” a particular question . nonetheless , my overall experience at the undp and the world bank suggested that staff and management could and did behave in accordance with article 100 . when i was administrator of the undp , i had to come to terms with continuous requests ” from government representatives . but i , too , received requests – often from global superpowers – in a way that was in clear violation of article 100 of the un charter and has had to spend a great deal of time trying to avoid engaging governments on such terms . being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was right and normal ; taking orders from them was not .
blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost some $ 90 billion over the past decade , three-quarters of which came from his holdings at exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who ignored climate-change warnings have already made a financial hit . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , because the company has misjudged the pace of the shift toward green energy and a collapse in demand for gasoline turbines and thermal power stations . more broadly , the investor agenda for a low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in managed-driven assets . these investors are urging governments not just to limit rising temperatures , but also to fulfill the paris climate agreement ’s more difficult goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
in short , china is on the brink of large , necessary , and dangerous transformations that promise to change the country for a better – or make it all , including regional stability , much worse . the entire world has a large stake in what happens next . at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing america . but trouble with america ’s allies , especially japan , might draw the us into a fight that it strongly favors to avoid . conflict with the united states is unlikely ever to happen anytime soon .
south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer have likened the bill to the apartheid legislation . now , however , the right to information in south africa is in jeopardy . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer has likened the bill to the apartheid legislation . in late november , the lower house of parliament , led by the majority african national congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly passed a new law – the “ protection of the state information bill ” – whose acceptance would shield a country ’s ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer , has likened the bill to the apartheid legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has slowed in recent years , yet it is still a powerful performer , contributing about one-third of total economic growth worldwide . it is also becoming more sustainable , in line with the shift in its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . but , at home , china faces serious risks . above all , domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerously dangerous levels . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china , we have been calling loudly for new pledges to structural reforms to spur growth in advanced and emerging-market economies .
hong kong – in the early days of this century , when china launched its “ go out ” policy , focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies , few expected the country quickly to emerge as a leading economic player in latin america . yet that is precisely what has happened before . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather marginal economic role in latin america to being among the region ’s top investors and trading partners , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly – a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon – china has now set its sights on another goal : expanding its political influence in the region and beyond . the question is whether this is good news for latin america .
in remarks following a press conference , he praised trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and the “ absolute leader of the presidential race . ” both are consummate propagandists and their performers , and both are consummate propagandists and the rest of the world . there is little question , however , about which us candidate putin would like to see at the white house . and both are poised – even eager – for a bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead . the two men surely deserve each other , and the two men still do not .
the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda , pursuing the labor-market , tax , and investment policies that would “ adapt ” france to “ capitalist ” globalization . in practice , that would mean pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . a second avenue would have required macron to build on a pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route he initially opted out , rapidly becoming the darling of a business-oriented international press . as the economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a bigger state , to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account , and so forth .
mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . “ if you live in a state that wants to mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including 60-year-old women , that ’s a fine , ” ” ” ” ” and if you do n’t , “ then you can still figure out how to change a state that you live in ” or change “ state legislatures and state laws , ” in mulvaney ’s words . in a benign scenario , people will club together across different states on their preferences for big or small-government , public or private provision of services , and international cooperation or isolationism and isolationism . in a vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the us congress could seek to limit progressive states ’ rights . “ why do we look to the federal government to try and fix our local problems ?
whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s , are met with nuclear , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new competitive footing in the regional market . for years , over-reliance on traditional fuels has discouraged investment in clean technologies for power generation , despite the fact that both countries are innovators in green industries , like energy storage and smart grids . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry through the non-renewal of existing licenses and bans on future plants . blueprints remains formulated , but accepted by the two countries as a commitment mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies .
under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders agreed in principle to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is the inevitable , as china liberalizes its capital markets and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender control over its money supply and interest rates to america . yet china ’s rulers are right to postpone a decision to float . the chinese can delay but can not hide from a fundamental economic law : if the exchange rate among two countries ’ currencies is fixed and capital flows between them are unconstrained , economically dominant will exercise control over the other ’s monetary policy . because the dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the supply of american dollars as long as china sticks to its fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply .
in fact , even that level may not be low enough . can we turn the tap to zero net emissions before a bathtub hits a level that will take us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ? as the paris agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be extremely expensive , especially for developing countries and israel . so we are in a race to the world . the good news is that if we somehow stop all emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only for a decade or so before stabilizing .
indeed , no one has any idea of the consequences , both for the uk , in the global trading system , or for the effect on domestic political stability . but what , exactly , is a fair , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining decisions ? i am worried that this is not a fairly picture . is it really enough to get 52 % to vote to breakup on a rainy day ? mind you , citizens of the west are blessed with a living time of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through a democratic process instead of foreign and civil wars .
instead , today , america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and defense spending in the us is likely to grow even larger in the years to come . defense spending is 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom reach 3 % . but confining a debate about the defense commitment of the top 1 % of gdp spent on the military is inadequate , owing to economies of scale in defense spending . so one would expect that smaller countries spend proportionally more on defense than larger ones . security and global influence are not the only benefits that come through military spending .
new york – at the united nations general assembly this month , there was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders . at the end of the 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate postwar era , and felt as though he was “ present at the creation of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . ” but , at the un this year , many attendees felt as though they were present at the destruction of that world . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say , do , or tweet . even before the summit began , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south koreans , and japanese consulting in earnest about the need for a new alliance to save the multilateral system .
bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel could flare up anytime soon . indeed , democracy is fragile , at best , across north africa ; and in the middle east , jordan , the palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have only just begun to feel the ripples of the tidal wave sweeping the region . as events over the last two weeks in egypt have shown all too vividly , the arab awakening is still under its first action in many countries . indeed , in the medium term , the world abounds with the tensions and potential crises that america ’s leadership is likely to be indispensable to resolving . even as the us is out of the headlines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another to forge a united opposition , and working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals .
the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , in the aftermath of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . there would be no common european plan to address the crisis , and no call for public funds . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing a country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe . the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , in the wake of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . such shortcomings are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates the pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
such a pact - calling for a " united economic space " - is now being entered into the hands of russia , ukraine , kazakhstan and belarus . on the surface , a " united economic space " sounds like something to applaud . but , sadly , the treaty will merely be the entrench postcommunism 's corrupt and criminal business practices , not increased trade or prosperity . when is a free-trade agreement bad ? when the underlying purpose of the treaty , however , is neither about trade nor freedom .
nahda ’s ascent ( renaissance ) , a leading islamist party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill the post-revolutionary political vacuum . the party ’s imposing headquarters in tunis symbolize its position as the country ’s most effective political operation by far . scores of volunteers are being deployed in electoral campaigning at a grassroots , door-to-door levels . since january , nahda has opened more than 200 offices in the state department . while opponents ominously recall the involvement of party cadres in deadly bombings of tourist targets in 1991 , nahda has gone to some lengths to appease his critics .
but , since the late 1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and a desire to avoid repeating the speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . america ’s treasury bills have been an obvious candidate for this reserve fund . consider first the claim that the dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . the problem is that foreign holdings of dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” in their traditional sense . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded their exports .
by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . good economics , by contrast , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . it is very hard for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary provides a clear example of the former .
un secretary ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a shared plan of action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global partnership for food . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to humanity . the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to increasing global conflicts . the world bank has forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion and breaking the poverty cycle . countries and organizations are already mobilizing the world bank .
of course , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : defined-benefit retirement plans need positive break returns even when most of its assets yield a negative nominal return , such outcomes become increasingly difficult to achieve . so , why are investors holding such assets ? many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative , because they are obliged to hold safer bonds . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims , and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest mostly in bonds , which are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets . and yet negative bond yields are also occurring in countries and regions where the currency is depreciating and likely to depreciate further , including germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan .
in his first year and a half in office , macron started to address these problems , and managed to deliver on eu deficit rules . the problem is that in pursuing these reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . step by step , his reforms seem consistently to benefit the wealthy . and so , when it was announced that his government would increase the tax on diesel fuel , middle – and working-class commuters took to the streets . with polls showing that some 70 % of french support the yellow vest protesters , macron was forced to retreat .
many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their influence within the international system by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs , without a clear endgame . but the perspectives that refute that narrative seem to be gaining ground . as it stands , perhaps the biggest barriers to international cooperation are political . in recent years , there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation , rooted partly in fears – stoked by populist political leaders in many countries – that the transnational “ elites ” are attempting to impose “ globalism ” : an “ ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . ” some also argue that the global elite has merely pretended to pursue socioeconomic change while actually maintaining a status quo that benefited them .
by pushing up inflation , the fed would turn real interest rates seriously negative , thereby coercing thrifty households into spending instead of saving . with rising demand , firms would hire and all go well . this is a different logic from the one calling for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at the expense of investors ) , but it has equally severe vulnerabilities . think of the soon-to-retire office worker . first , while low rates might stimulate spending if credit were easy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go out and spend .
specifically , between 2005 and 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , increased by a meager 2 % . though the g-8 made a clear promise , there was no plan on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear guidance that no such plan would exist . the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . for the first year after gleneagles meeting , aid numbers were padded by misleading accounting for debt cancellation operations . with those debt cancellation operations largely completed , the data are now revealing a stark truth : development aid to africa and poor countries more generally is stagnant , contrary to all of the promises that have been made .
and while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the increase has not been especially dramatic and remains at reasonable levels . but that is not what the average citizen sees . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been inequality . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on 2015-2016 life in the transition survey produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived increase in inequality far exceeded the reality described by official data , typically based on household surveys . but , at the global level , inequality is declining .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the most powerful players in global history . and , though the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even more authority and more responsibility for overseeing the financial system . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political position is far more uncertain than its leadership seems to realize . that is a worrying outcome , given that senior fed officials seem to have slid back into their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even as those concerns are voiced by members of america ’s senate banking committee . america ’s central bank has control over the money supply , currently exerts great influence over interest rates , both for short , and for long-term borrowing .
as a result , scientists and engineers are faced with a daunting task during the anthropocene era : to guide us toward environmentally sustainable management . this will require adequate human behavior at all levels , and may well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” our climate . more by luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation has not developed . unless there is a global disaster – a meteorite impact , world war ii , or a pandemic – mankind will remain a major environmental force for many millennia to come . at this stage , however , we are still largely treading on the terra incognita .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that have recently emerged from dictatorship . in all of these cases , a cynic would be a half-right . but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion . one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that have recently emerged from dictatorship . the process demands a constitution making of an often complex and painful type .
this is undermining corporate profitability , spurring companies to deleverage and reduce investment , and fueling further declines in ppi . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economic growth reflects trends from the first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace in seven years , has exceeded market expectations . and it has been driven partly by the unforeseen increase in growth in real-estate investment , to 6 % . this is not to say that what china needs is more real-estate investment .
in terms of value-added , the patent makes the largest contribution . but that does not mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait for it to be proven wrong , because it is possible that the reported trade deficit will narrow in the first year , even as the true trade deficit widens . it all comes down to a “ transfer pricing ” – the prices multinational corporations use it to put a value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which is setting up a plant in iran . an iranian affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , intellectual property represented by the us patent ) , assembles the product in iran , and exports it back to the us .
the recommendations included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing sexual education availability , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . solutions start at home , in order to enable developing countries to start shifting away from conditional aid that restricts health-care providers ’ ability to work according to local laws . and yet , as a result of us policy , none of these changes will come easily . if countries like south africa are ever to escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to combat the global gag rule . local ngos , along with responsible global partners , must find new support for programs that educate women about their rights and provide access to safe abortion services .
we want firms that already offer refugees an online education , internet access , and hardware to drive educational provision to displaced and isolated girls and boys . in establishing this fund , we end the formulaic crisis response era . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection can motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . what makes this fund unique is not the series of new benchmarks that it sets . the us wants technology firms to play a central role in providing fresh ideas and disruptive thinking .
but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has begun to pull itself together . debate over the association agreement with the european union , together with the russian-backed rebellion in the east , has stoked tensions over distinctions that have previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the rest of the eu , but the overwhelming majority of voters have emerged in europe ’s favor . civil society has been energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but is in turmoil . russia ’s intervention has to some extent backfired , reinforcing support for a european orientation .
the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the eu banking union ’s integrity , under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . against this backdrop , the challenge will be to retain the primacy of global standards and secure continued buy-in to the basel iii process . the bank for international settlements ’ new general managing director , agustín carstens , mexico ’s former governor of the central bank , will have a key role to play , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year as the fsb ’s chairman . it is likely , too , that a new chair of the basel committee will soon emerge . regulators there are now keenly focused on the implications of brexit , which will require complicated arrangements to manage the new uk-eu relationship .
supervision , greater transparency in financial markets , an effective early-warning system for financial crises , and better international policy coordination . the crisis has made it clear that national supervision of banks that operate globally is inadequate . regulatory gaps have created spillover effects across other countries . there is a clear need for international regulatory coordination . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks operating globally were absent .
europe can face down america ’s extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . in fact , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupees , and rubles , avoiding us banks . oil-for-goods trade can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism like instex . if the us were to implement them against much of the rest of the world , its damage to america ’s economy , the dollar , the us stock market , and american leadership would be irreparable .
the fact that the international monetary fund , america ’s department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all have joined in opposing the vulture funds is revealing . countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . but so , too , is the court ’s decision , which evidently assigned little weight to their arguments . such contracts should also include collective-action clauses , making it impossible for vulture funds to hold on to debt restructuring . when a sufficient share of lenders agree on a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s gdp did ) , the others can be forced to go along .
as the american treasury ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress noted , for china these plans are to “ rebalance its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . ” indeed , rebalancing the growth pattern is the central economic goal of china ’s leadership . but expanding demand and allowing a genuine effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough unless other countries do their part . knowing what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is the easy part : look at and look at and “ just do ” the multilateral consultation policy plans . oil exporters need to increase fiscal spending further ; japan and europe must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and america must implement concrete measures to sustain higher saving .
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of an economy ’s welfare for more than 80 years . but , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-focused , economists are increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as an economy ’s gauge , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
the notion that he should not take steps to protect his interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out to get him . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pockets certainly should be worrying americans . and the west ’s policies toward russia , economic sanctions , or military exercises in border-free countries like poland are not necessarily wrong . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the us remains a positive global force . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , alongside the european union , which should stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán .
fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored . according to the oecd and the un climate policy initiative , the developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . while it is important to note that this figure is only an estimate , it represents a tentative but credible climate-finance indicator based on information provided by developed countries . if one assumes greater leverage over private-sector investment , the number would be higher . but larger financial flows are needed , especially from the private sector .
first among such sources of uncertainty is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions be able to adapt fast enough to harness change , or will they be overtaken by it ? moreover , while the interconnectivity has been falling , intrastate conflicts fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources continue to plague some regions like the middle east , south asia , and africa . and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is a set of questions on the impact of new technologies .
the irony , however , is that the us has exercised greater control over iran ’s oil sector under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , rather than saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future , democratic iraq . but america ’s interest in iraqi oil was not driven either by economics or energy policy . the bush administration recognized that , above all , iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical asset . if the bush administration sought stable , secure , diverse , and cheap oil supplies , it could simply have lifted its embargos on libya , iran , libya , libya , iran , israel , and sudan and allow its oil gush . whoever controls the iraqi oil controls on iraq , after all , has the effect .
moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are the concomitant capitalist culture in the entire west . but challengers such as china and india are in no position to preach . a hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equivalent to 25 % of gdp , while 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar a day . compared to indian capitalism , the ethical failures of capitalism elsewhere look especially benign .
typically , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar at different levels of labor income , for different types of consumption , for outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on . from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to means tests of welfare programs ) and the top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . thus , cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 , and making the rate schedule more rewarding ( on the medicare side ) , has been the mistakes of the standpoint of efficient taxation . thus , the government has moved in the wrong direction since 2009 sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) , and more recently at the very top ( by raising tax rates on the wealthy ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is an american payroll tax for which marginal tax rates are close to the average rate ( because deductions are absent and there is little graduation in the rate structure ) .
raising interest rates can reduce aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame the prices of some goods and services , especially non-traded goods and services . but , unless taken to unbearable levels , such measures by themselves can not bring inflation down to targeted levels . for example , even if global energy and food prices rise at a more subdued rate than now , for example , at 20 % per year – and get ahead of home prices – bringing overall inflation to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do the importing countries have to pay more for the grain , they must pay more to bring it to their countries , and still more to deliver it to consumers , who may live a long distance from ports . so long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy – and are not taking measures to restrain international prices ’ impact on home prices – home rice prices and other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices do .
yet the defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders . the leaders that brought on failure and groups that did not triumph become heroes for claiming that they courageously fought the enemy without being crushed . such a pattern provides a formula for endless conflict and never-ending defeat . thus , they fail to give up formally on anything at all . such a pattern is a formula for endless conflict and never-ending defeat .
although america is deeply divided in 2017 , americans remain committed to democracy ’s central tenets : free , fair and regular elections , and protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . fearful pronouncements on the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . american governance institutions have survived greater challenges than any that trump may pose . it is unlikely that trump will attempt to override any of them ; and even if he tries , he will fail . when he leaves office , the us will essentially be what it was when he entered it : the world ’s most powerful democracy .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent , even when tissue has already been removed from a patient ’s body . today , there are brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories to study a variety of diseases . who should have access to these spectives ? for what purposes can they be used ? virtually all of us do have a tissue on file somewhere in the world .
with soft power , however , the energy of empowered followers is reinforcing leaders . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands . in turn , potential leaders can learn more about the sources and limits of the soft-power skills of emotional iq , vision , and communications , as well as hard-power political and organizational capabilities . leadership is broadly distributed throughout healthy democracies , and all citizens must learn more about what makes good and bad leaders . they must also better understand the nature of the contextual intelligence that they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies .
it has done so in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for the talks . the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a ceasefire agreement . that deal was supposedly setting the stage for a independence referendum in western sahara the following year – a democratic solution . but morocco has also repeatedly blocked progress toward further negotiations . yet morocco has also repeatedly blocked progress toward further negotiations .
moreover , the two candidates embody continuity – with chirac ’s gaullist side over sarkozy and with françois mitterrand for royal – in terms of rupture . to a large extent , sarkozy can be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand with less . royal has openly claimed mitterand ’s legacy as she searches for legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form than substance . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac confronted the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round . as of 2002 , the victor will whomever the electorate dislikes or fear less .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing , together with its confluence of us-led interests , offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo oil platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , sending surveillance ships to the senkaku islands less often . chinese officials have also become more willing to discuss creating a code of conduct for the south china sea . with obama unwilling – or unable , owing to rising political partisanship at home – to take the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , and american allies took the right to do so . global power needs to be allocated somewhere ; if the us would not fill its leading role on the international scene , an understudy would have to step in .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the labor market in large numbers . yes , the us has done some things to improve financial markets . there have been some increases in capital requirements , but far short of what is needed . most americans ’ incomes and wealth are below their levels long before the crisis . indeed , a typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it has been in more than four decades .
what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant . it is worth recalling the result of president george w. bush ’s analogous determination to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework deal ” with north korea : the kim regime ’s promptly and predictably developed a nuclear bomb . whether america will continue to lead the world remains unclear . the republican presidential campaign , in turn , adds another element of uncertainty . the two leading contenders for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted ted ted cruz , both of whom say they would tear up the iran nuclear deal , if elected .
restoring stability and a just democratic system to moldova is important , first and foremost , because the moldovans deserve a government that is accountable . stability is also important because the country borders on romania , a european member state . nevertheless , many remain in the detention and voronin continues to hurl accusations at the opposition and romania of organizing a coup d’état . legal proceedings have been opened against opposition parties , including some of them . president vladimir voronin later granted the detainees a amnesty .
on the eve of their decline , a few arab autocrats really were lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in embracing the “ right ” economic policies . this raises a raft of other questions . were economists focused on the wrong indicators ? were they misled by false inferences ? the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that it may have been at odds with the policies they prescribed for arab ancien régimes .
while china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after that , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . the key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) , which is why china has effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years . in the wake of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have amounted to rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the amount may reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
trump does not just want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it . he and his supporters have also taken aim at the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy rests , including the courts , the legislative branch , the independent media , and more . democracy is under direct threat in the country where it should have its deepest cultural and political roots . but it is more than that . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently of the age of total war that will arrive less than a century after his death .
while official interest rates are only 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , while creditworthy firms in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . in short , there can be no reliance on structural reforms alone to stimulate growth in 2012 . instead , an immediate focus needs to be on boosting investment and exports in economies with a current-account deficit – for example , france , italy , spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs to stimulate the real economy , too . so the ecb should do more to block a monetary-policy transmission mechanism ; the european banking authority should discourage excess deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital inflows rather than hit a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size firms .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term as his popular party privatized most of the public sector , firms that deregulated many in the service sector . his new government vows to continue eliminating the public deficit and to lowering unemployment . it also promises to cut income taxes , put the country ’s social security system on a firmer footing , and reduce the costs of shedding labor . introducing real competition in energy and telecoms , lacking in privatization until now , is also pledged . aznar ’s program is sensible yet ambitious .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every field of business life ; the jump in business activity over online astounds . an important new report by america 's department of commerce , " the emerging digital economy , " suggests that the internet is reshaping not only american business , but the global economy . in 1994 , three million people , mostly americans , used the internet . as recently as january 1995 , there were around 27,000 internet business addresses . in 1998 , 100 million people over the world are connected with the internet , and the us accounts for 100 million .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far more intense scrutiny than more “ nature ” foods . ( natural foods , too , can pose health risks , as was shown recently by studies establishing that a popular type of cinnamon can cause liver damage . ) although cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants can occur , so far no new superweeds have emerged . regulations to protect the environment and consumer health should be maintained . we should be pleased to this , and perhaps regulations introduced in response to concerns expressed by environmental organizations have played a role in this outcome .
we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments remain vigilant . unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until the risks actually materialize . virus protection and virus development constitute an uneven arms race . a virus can be just a few hundred lines of a computer code compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must be designed to detect wide classes of enemies . let us hope that we are fortunate for a while longer .
such impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis conducted by a team of top economists tasked by my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with its assessment of potential population-related targets , to identify the best global investments . this approach has enormous potential benefits . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country workforces would provide a larger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . moreover , each dollar invested in this initiative would produce nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient use of scarce resources . these migrant workers ’ taxes would help developed countries fund services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetamol in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most widely used drugs . it is the preferred medications for relieving fever , and pain because of its safety profile . it is the preferred medications for relieving fever , and pain ten years ago , because of its safety profile . several epidemiological studies have since reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in womb , childhood , and adulthood . these studies have led to the suggestion that the use of paracetamol can represent an important risk factor in the rise of childhood asthma .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor in the department of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that the region ’s space program is critical to raising the profile of careers in science and engineering in a part of the world in which the most educated people still go to finance or management . “ the answer , ” he says , is partly that by supporting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . today , the country believes that roughly 60 working astronomers have about 60 , more than half of all astronomers working in africa . in a country deeply divided economically , “ what on earth is the benefit of the poor , and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” asks physicist harold annegarn , a professor at johannesburg university .
unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value back to the present , in the hope of profiting sufficiently to repay the future . mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were the logical outcome . in this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads – especially in the post-2008 reality that confirmed total control over society by mega-firms and mega-banks . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all other ingredients of today ’s discontent with free-market capitalism became inescapable . because neither banks nor investors had enough money to plough into networked mega-firms , a mega-bank emerged in the form of a global cartel of banks and shadow funds , each with its own shareholders .
just a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would reemerge once the crisis passed . that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is returning to its pre-crisis growth rate or spending pattern . nor is earlier trade balances on the verge of re-emerge . america ’s trade position will be strengthened by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and by increasing productivity , which auger further re-shoring of manufacturing production . for their part , emerging markets have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth .
still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find credible messages alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are pillaging eu funds to benefit on their own , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s government has been the subject of multiple investigations by europe ’s anti-fraud bureau . during the election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . despite such behavior , orbán was re-elected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats ( cdu ) , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough to amend the constitution . both governments have broken down on nongovernmental organizations , focusing or co-opted the media .
we know that a variety of poorly understood factors cause embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to differentiate into all possible cellular types . that restriction requires that stem cell lines must be acquired only from privately-funded or commercial sources that follow the guidance protocols . following these discussions , the american national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that allow the use of government funds for stem-cell research , but , in their current form , prohibit federally-funded investigators from establishing new stem cell lines . that restriction requires that stem cell lines be acquired only from privately-funded or commercial sources that follow the guidance protocols . i believe that restricting the use of government funds to develop stem cells , although politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps .
yet , far from accepting these contributions , the plan would largely cut regulators off . for example , the plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank run , leaving it to a bank ’s own managers ’ discretion . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often wait too long before declaring bankruptcy , so that creditors may step in to do some of the push , potentially even forcing a failed firm ’s bankruptcy . while bank regulators have instruments to put pressure on the banks , their most efficient ones are the power to initiate insolvency when the economy is best . taking this tool off could have severe adverse consequences .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to the “ generational ” challenge of climate change . instead , we are told of purported economic payoffs , above all , to the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , however , that does n’t measure up to economic reality . investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind no longer appears peddled on environmental grounds . the copenhagen consensus center has asked gürcan gülen , a senior energy economist at the center of energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin , to assess the “ state of science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of green jobs .
after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across all sectors is essential to success . in today ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the most . genuine engagement with civil society is the only way to stimulate two struggling governments and overcome their conservatism . it is , however , regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are deeply vague . it is absolutely essential that this text be accompanied by a new method , adapted to the current world in which we live – a world where politics no longer exists in the muffled debates of ministerial meetings , or through convoluted communiqués .
but the international community needs to do more than provide food and medicine to the victims of famine and drought . necessary as it stands , we need pro-growth investments that will help provide jobs for our peoples and products and resources for the world . that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable governments rather than subsidizing failed and failed states . for example , somaliland and ethiopia are collaborating to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the poorest and least developed parts of the world . while there is much that we can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still benefit from international assistance .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . trento – the most notable result of the recent european parliament election – is neither that the conservatives and social democrats lost seats to liberals and greens , nor that far-right nationalists gained less than anticipated . it is that citizens voted in a much larger number than anyone expected to do .
for , in our zeal to learn the lessons of history , we often learn the wrong , or distort history towards dubious ends . in a sense , the killings at srebrenica have also been influenced by memories of world war ii . we know that hitler intended to destroy every last jewish man , woman , and child . laudable efforts to prevent such a thing from recurring , however , have had unfortunate consequences . even when mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , unusual .
this is a paradox intrinsic to democracy , and it is policymakers ’ duty to deal with the tensions that it affords . but the path of particularistic action that does not undermine all citizens ’ liberty and equality is narrow . democratic principles call for an organizing society in such a way that the two values can be realized to the greatest possible extent . yet it is also the duty of citizens to preserve the formal , political sense of citizenship as state interference broadens to ensure the well of all . that may restrict political freedoms in the name of greater equality .
do these figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are the usual signs of a boom ? if america ’s gdp growth rate in the coming decades remains what it has been over the last thirty years , the answer is straightforward and terrifying . stock market prices would be far too high , and the price of the exterior would be much too high . households would be behaving in an irresponsible fashion . the exterior imbalance would be unwarranted , indeed , unsustainable .
for example , he cites draining away from industrial jobs as the most glaring evidence of france ’s decline . but deindustrialization is common to all advanced countries . moreover , according to a better comptetitiveness measure , foreign investment , france is doing very well . indeed , france is in fact better than most of its wealthy rivals , and , unlike germany , the united kingdom , or the us , has retained the same global market share in the industrialized sector that it had in the early 1970 ’s . baverez ’s evidence of de-politicization is not as compelling as he believes .
that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has enemies . these friends , for example , deserve both the respect and attention that it is . i know that this is not exactly a new lesson ; it is what i have in mind when i think of efficient multilateralism . a second lesson that i have learned is also useful for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge , and where all actors , from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and daily interdependence . if italy and the eu failed to understand the need to work with non-european countries and make them feel responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , the effort to establish the icc , and be so close to declare a universal moratorium on the death penalty , will fail .
the problem is that empathy for american workers is in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china , who would be even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts are . in his campaign speeches , trump made use of the tragic killing of kate steinle by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . that ’s a good thing , but it also has a darker side . he has not offered any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who save foreigners ’ lives , though such cases have been reported . empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize .
this brings us to the imf a fourth role , namely using its bully pulpit to warn of the risks created by large-country policies . if so , the fund needs to win back its confidence . small countries are subject to market discipline because any latvian tells you . or it could be that national policymakers do not trust the imf , given that it has essentially missed the global financial crisis . financial markets and global institutions need a global macro-prudential regulator , not just loosely organized supervisors ’ college .
provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for work , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . this is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize the price level . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall , except in a few niche markets . businessmen do not need low inflation to expand production . they need only the prospect of more sales in the future .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is about half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s , and more than twice the size of india ’s . these divergences help to explain why a host of new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of the n-11 ’s , including the mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and the fog ( swapping in south korea to nigeria ) . i have not devise these groupings , but i have come to associate with them , having produced a bbc radio documentary on mint countries in 2014 . at any rate , they have been in keeping with earlier points that i have raised ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp . eight years later , the brics economies still have a chance to account for around 2-3 % of world gdp in the future .
american intelligence agencies alerted president barack obama of the russian tactics , warning putin of adverse effects when the two met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to call out russia publicly or take strong action on fear that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls and jeopardizing hillary clinton ’s expected victory . and because us president donald trump treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration also failed to take forceful steps . after the election , obama went public and expelled russian spies and closed some diplomatic facilities , but the weakness of america ’s response undercut any deterrent . the brilliance of russian innovations in information warfare was to combine existing technologies with a degree of deniability that remained just below the overt attack threshold .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has shaken up the way a campaign is running , how nominee communicates with voters and the republican party ’s governing platform , with many of his positions deviating from gop tradition . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered meaningless within hours . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line . he is changing his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them .
this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . and it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in the western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive documents and funding right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump to support the kremlin . moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from resolved : the minsk armistice agreement , and the armed conflict may escalate at any moment . then there is russia ’s role in syria . russia has withdrawn from a number of nuclear agreements , and the kremlin recently placed iskander missiles capable of transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad near the polish border .
trump ’s approach is particularly striking given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s main national-security issue . so the us appears to be friends again – or perhaps just under dispute resumes . but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why , it seems , does it despise the eu so deeply ? why should the us try to undermine europe rather than seek closer cooperation to protect its economic and geopolitical interests ?
the report – the product of several months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’s current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order that rests on universal norms . ” as gauck proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continued adaptation ” of that order . to achieve this objective , germany must become “ shaping power , a state with the capacity to resolve problems , and resolve conflicts affecting all or a part of the international community . ” shaping power builds relationships , and invests in institutions that allow it to work well with others , creating and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ” the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states , geography , economic heft , and military might , coupled with resource access and technological proficiency , remain important ; but they are often insufficient to confer actual sway in international politics .
and he implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to assist poland in manipulating its gas supply . with his performance , trump has managed to draw enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , and not just from pis-curated crowds , owing partly to his opposition leader lech wałęsa , who has been booed by pis supporters , and remains a constant target of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and outspoken critic of the pis government , concluded : “ i believe that trump ’s speech was very well done . ” he has made powerful allusions to poland ’s history , and was very flattering to the us as poles . nor has he utter a single negative word on the european union , germany , or france .
add to that china ’s other strengths – the annual gdp of over $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , savings rates equal to 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis seems highly unlikely . but that does not mean that there are no risks at all . on the contrary , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility , and in the view of china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . given that all this activity is at stake in the offshore renminbi market , which is small in scale , and has only limited links to mainland china ’s financial system , the result of china ’s hesitancy of financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility , the situation remains controllable . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page .
in a church that boasts of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” seems startling . even young men studying for priesthood receive very weak philosophical training , and do purposefully . many polish bishops almost openly proclaim to their flock : you are supposed to listen , not think , or argue . faith is a matter of the heart of the story . if your behavior is good – ie , you do n’t drink , beat your wife , and of course give money to the church – you are fine .
of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor opposition over the government . as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a specific occupation , including journalists , are not granted some form of immunity from these types of serious criminal charges . for the last 13 years , the turkish government has proved to be the main guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its reform of the judiciary . furthermore , it should be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are published in turkey , with total daily circulation of nearly five million copies . freedom of expression and press freedom are guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and its articles of agreement .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . the us and others will need to push back to ensure that china does not act on this temptation . but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to take its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and according to the rules set for all . but the larger policy choices will be china ’s to make . nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can no longer point to a rapidly rising standard of living .
in my view , bubbles are social epidemics fostered by a sort of interpersonal contagion . large , speculative bubbles are rare events , and they are the ones that we know what to do . but contagion rates depend on the patterns of thinking that are hard to judge . a bubble forms when the contagion rate goes up to the ideas that foster a bubble . ( little bubbles , in the price of , say , individual stocks , happen all the time , not to qualify as the answer to the question . )
the right ’s ideology , as represented by the washington consensus of neo-liberal , market fundamentalism , was not much more successful , even if its setbacks often go unacknowledged . the last half-century has shown that while development is possible , it is not inevitable . the great communist experiment is virtually over ( to save a few holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . the century just ended up being rough with simplistic ideologies , both left and right . socialism had its day at its court and was found wanting .
there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s microtargeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in key states that he needed to win an electoral college . second , with intra-eu migration having risen , there are now almost 15 million europeans residing in eu countries other than their own . by collecting or purchasing large voter data sets , campaigns can segment voters into strategic clusters using complicated algorithms , and then deliver personalized online content to their most susceptible voters . microtargeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting altogether . as populists well know , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to difficulties registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and overly complicated absentee-voting practices .
even if the chinese authorities manage to achieve full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it will actually become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not easily fixed . at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to build up claims against china , at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . indeed , over three centuries of globalization , there have been only three “ currency ” currencies ” : gold , the british pound , and the american dollar . it is also perhaps no accident that the global financial centers and the reserve currency have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established , and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination . though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the dollar since world war ii , often providing better store value chains that are less prone to inflation , none has made lasting inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves .
in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that was close to 4 % of gdp , perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average at that time . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries are running deficits that are higher than germany ’s ten years ago . in considering which the lessons of germany ’s turnaround should be applied to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what government can do and what remains the responsibility of business , workers , and society at large . the one area where government is clearly in charge is public finance . a turnaround in germany ’s public-finance position was due mostly to reduced spending .
and , if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we must test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . this involves moving beyond the closed , question-and-answer process typical of a lab , and applying our ideas in a society , earlier and more often than ever . to see how things work in reality , we must construct living laboratories , that is , communities willing to try new ways of doing things ( to be blunt , to treat guinea as guinea ) . an example of such a living lab is the “ open data city , ” which i launched with the city of trento in italy , together with telecoms italia , telefónica , the research university fondazione bruno kessler , an data-driven institute , and local companies . importantly , this living lab has the approval and informed consent of all involved ; they understand that they are participating in a gigantic experiment , whose goal is to create a better way of living .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but the way europe ’s policy toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it must use economic policies to achieve its geopolitical goal .
canberra – trade-offs are an inherent part of the way to life . we all recognize this from our private budgets , and we need to do so . to fix the roof , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . when we pick cheaper wine , we can splurge on dessert . trade-offs also pervade environmental policy : cutting a more one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to address other issues .
london – the british election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s european politics and its relationship with europe , but not necessarily in the way that a vastly increased majority for may ’s conservative party might seem to imply . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s election announcement : “ crush saboteurs . ” but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately lead to an even more stunning reversal , as did napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after destroying all opposition in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still snatch victory from the jaws of defeat on three related causes . first , by bringing forward the british election , may has effectively extended the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union since 2019 until 2022 .
no wonder , then , that an impressive premier is thought to favor some political loosening . elsewhere , of course , this sort of turmoil has the democratic safety valves . it is more than odd to argue that the rest of the world must cope with a built-in advantage for china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with change . then again , perhaps we ’re lucky that matters are n’t getting worse . from east to west , politics seems to function in ways that are , to be diplomatic , suboptimal .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union is mobility . according to this vision , the eu ’s inhabitants had a nation to lose and a continent to gain . but some recent election results indicate that they are more concerned about losing the nation . ever since the one european act of 1986 removed working restrictions in other member countries , the continent has been a single labor market – at least in theory . the process of integration was intended to facilitate and become more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another .
a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have a greater say . a common political institution accountable to voters across the eurozone would provide a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb and help cage german power . with the no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and to respond to voters ’ changing priorities . but increasing animosity among eurozone member states , and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries , mean greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . one possibility would be greater federalism , with the right approach .
during the global financial crisis , the g20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like the fiscal-policy response and the international monetary fund ’s role . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also placed some pressure on governments regarding what not to do . in these respects , the g20 was clearly a step forward . lately , however , as the g20 tried to reconcile divergent national economic interests and recovery strategies , it was far less successful relative to its founding meetings in washington and london in 2009 . bogotá , lima , santiago , and international economic coordination are just as necessary as elusive .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable , which comprises chief executive officers of america ’s largest companies , with the combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion , updated its longstanding statement on corporate purpose . it ’s not just shareholders , ceos say , that their firms must be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . and the statement ’s principal author , in his apparent exhilaration , is reported to have said that he feels like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . in fact , the shareholders came on ceos ’ new list . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in dentate gyrus , which is suppressed by acute and chronic stress , is elevated by many antidepressant therapies . still , one of the problems with many contemporary medications is that , even with the treatment , the recurrence of the major depression is very high – around 70-80 % . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – the ones that may also lead to structural changes in the brain – are not being arrested entirely , and thus the need for a new generation of anti-depressant medications . if so , new antidepressants would have to target what seem to be the progressive neurodegenerative changes in the brain that we infer , because the recurrence of depression is so high under currently available treatments . lithium , a mood stabilizer , and the neuroprotective agent , has the properties we seek , even though its toxicity make it less than ideal .
tiger parenting aims to get children to make the most of what abilities they have , and so appears to lean toward the “ clever ” side of the “ clever or happy ” choice . that ’s also the view of betty ming liu , a blogged in response to chua ’s ’s article : “ “ parents like amy chua ” are a reason why asian-americans like me are in a therapy ” game . stanley prosecutions , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide , which is especially common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes that family pressure is a significant factor , and that this means that family pressure is just one . chua would reply that reaching a high level of achievement brings great satisfaction , and that the only way to do so is through hard work .
in some cases , they are individuals like venezuelan president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy ’s ex-prime minister silvio berlusconi . many other names could be added to the list . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have managed to get themselves in power in the last few years . mostly they enter the political scene from france but manage to form a highly personalized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen , and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . the list tells us two things , and the two of them are still missing in the list .
families are having fewer and fewer children , and more and more children are born out of wedlock . fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , and marriage is viewed less and less as a lifelong union . there is a clear status benefit for the minority ; no obvious harm is being done to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are ubiquitous . so one of the “ unintended consequences ” bill ’s unintended consequences might be to add welcome recruits to a married ranks , even if these recruits are of a historically anomalous kind . after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , albeit without a acute sense that i was striking at the blow of freedom .
in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives were voluntarily reducing their salaries as a means of communicating concern to their employees and public opinion . setting the right example is another critical form of communication for leaders . ronald reagan was a master of the well selected anecdote . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo the raise on himself . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved to be a talented communicator .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only at fighting common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also at treating a range of infections such as tuberculosis and malaria , which now risk becoming incurable . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already be lost . with the g-7 leaders having committed , in a recent joint declaration , to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for the more inclusive g-20 – and china , as it chairs the group for the first time , to take the fight to the next level . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality , or their countries ’ level of development . indeed , by 2050 , ten million people could be dying as a result of amr , up from about 700,000 today , with china and india each holding housing some one million sufferers .
sydney – the appointment of the five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a reminder that the ascension to china of the next generation of leaders who will take power in 2012 may be the most important development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s reign started in 1978 . all five appointees were born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . two of them , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are just 46 years old . the upcoming generation of leaders will be the first with little or no personal memory of the tumult and hardship endured during the years of mao zedong . forgetting that history may doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it may also ease constraints and set its leaders free .
first , eu leaders must determine how to resolve the euro crisis . a cyber superbug , for example , destroys the networks on which our way of life has come to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and environmental collapse . in this set of possible outcomes , one point stands out : the uncertainty of europe ’s ’s role in the future global system . finally , there is the scenario of chaos . to prevent inexorable decline , europe must reach clear decisions on three fundamental issues .
past experience has taught china ’s real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluations . but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , together with negative interest rates , caused financial institutions ’ equity prices to fall , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction through price deflation , increasing illiquidity , and overcrowded supervision . the american dollar is a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort . the question is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which the five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against japan ’s yen and germany ’s deutsche mark . if not , why would asia ’s net lenders , especially in china , continue to finance speculation against itself ?
we saw buildings – not just the former hamas headquarters – still in rubble . houses are riddled with bullet holes . but the real life is also traumatic and limited . there is no electricity of up to eight hours per day , but the only thing that is left behind . and a good traffic deal – with new cars smuggled in tunnels beneath the “ philadelphi ” route ” that runs along the egyptian border .
despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and because a result can fail to confront the latest economic menace – global deflation . falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade . china and hong kong have seen prices plummet recently . many central bankers are like the proverbial general to fight the last war . but , unlike backward-looking military strategy , flawed monetary policies produce inevitable damage , not just worrisome risks .
extraterritorial sanctions are the second way the american could kill the jcpoa . the world must steadfastly resist another ruinous american military adventure . this clearly is on the american agenda , particularly the neoconservative doyen , john bolton back in the white house as the national security adviser . even if america now absconded itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means of blocking the implementation of the iran deal . the first would be to foment wars .
presumably , it was in response to this impasse that china pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . critics of america ’s policy point out that , even if america thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia , and around the rest of the world , one way or another . channeling that influence through a newly created international organization , they argue , tends to temper raw power grabs . a strategy of containment worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but it can not be applied today without flexibility and strategic sanity . the size of china ’s economy and its resulting diplomatic weight is a reality that can not be wished away .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without actually saying anything at all . at a time of evolving challenges and mounting threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , an isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign policy that he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach has become clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs . trump is a businessman , not a statesman , but one . he thinks in terms of immediate gain and losses – a worldview exemplified in his declarations that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances .
for example , multinational companies , whether headquartered in the us or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , about the same as a decade earlier . in 2009 , business accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies are the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spending more than twice as much as japanese firms . but business investment as a share of gdp has changed very little in the us over the past decade , while it has risen rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . global multinational companies are the largest business-sector r & d investors in the us and other countries . and american multinationals still locate some 84 % of their r & d operations in the us , often in innovation clusters around us research universities .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at roughly 48 % , according to official statistics . given that urban dwellers ’ share of people was just 18 % just 30 years ago , this is remarkable progress . but it remains unsatisfactory , because most other countries at a similar stage of development have experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . another striking divergence between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , big and small , lack any sign of meaningful urban poverty or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at about 70 % , when measured by the percentage of labor force , whose income is derived mainly from non-farm activities .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to the chaos and rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the verge of a civil war between shiites and sunnis . a loose electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , and a unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the near-combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . implementing democracy , with or without regime change , has been the only alternative to the chaos and rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the verge of a civil war between shiites and sunnis .
last january , lula visited israel with a string of leading brazilian business and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula have no intention of letting chávez lead the way . this made it easier for lula , in particular , to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , having as recently as march 2008 backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander luis reyes . calderón ’s uncompromising hardline line on mexico ’s drug dealers , an unrelenting offensive that follows uribe ’s precedent in dealing with the farc , has also helped because economic growth has muted domestic opposition . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout , because things have begun to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl .
the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign the long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine enter a customs union with russia , in exchange for a stationing of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin seems to have achieved his political aim , namely to bring ukraine , which has been drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . what is not known is how many more acts this sad political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how – the end . before our eyes , a tragedy in several acts is unfolding , in which the players and their aims are clear .
but there is a larger question lurking behind the gge : can norms really restrict state behavior ? most experts agree that the global treaty of cyberspace currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals at the un ) . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and widely shared expectations of due behavior among a group ( which creates a common law ) . in scope , such constraints can vary from global , plurilateral , to bilateral . although the number has increased from the original 15 to 25 , most countries have no voice .
monetary policy , however , is a much more awkward , indirect , and imprecise way of selecting winners and losers than fiscal policy is . think of the different effects of interest rates on debtors versus creditors . independent central banks can at some point be painful for politicians ; but they can at least be used as scapegoats when necessary-a role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool . such considerations should guide the choice of what follows from the european stability pact . to be sure , monetary policy also has redistributive effects .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , the credit and money supply would grow more slowly , limiting the risk of rising low-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . indeed , china ’s housing prices have been skyrocketing in the last few months . unlike america , china did not suffer from a liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . thus , low interest rates and nonmarket interference , rather than corporate demand , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing its full-year target . the government was too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and , overwhelmed by fears of falling asset prices on economic growth , has been far too cautious in tackling the bubbles when they reappeared .
it is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision . erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also expanded into the education system , with the establishment of a markedly religious curriculum . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made the teaching of the arabic obligatory in schools . now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as the guardian of the secular state and strengthen government control of the judiciary . erdogan believes that , by exercising turkey ’s mediation capacity , he will renege on the burden of his ottoman forbears as the guarantors of peace and security in the mashreq .
he remained skeptical about notions of irreversible progress . thus , european integration had to be shaped by real policies and institutions , not by decree . change for the better could emerge simply from practical initiatives , rather than from sunday ’s speeches . so he and giscard created the european council ( composed of european governments ) , which is now a major player in the european union ’s institutional set-up . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration , which came to fruition a generation later .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , the prospects are suddenly much clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize as a period of renegotiating the uk-eu relationship expands again from a new , very soft , april 12 deadline , until or beyond the end of the year .
of course , the iranian “ no ” is not the eu ’s equivalent of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a major setback and a challenge of institutional , political , and even psychological nature . it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ “ the united nations of europe ” has remained too ambivalent , if not deliberately ambiguous , effectiveness . can the most determined pro-integration europeans leave the pack without being paralyzed ? after the irish “ no ” europe can the union find salvation in nato ’s idea of a “ coalition of the willing ” ?
the good news , while , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and to the rest of the world can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what is also required is a dose of realism . indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of that era ’s scourges . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war ; it is not . we can not eradicate or destroy it any time soon , because it is both a network and an idea as an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources .
small and medium-size firms need to become a part of mexican capitalism . failing that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . mexico ’s own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance as has the determination to hang on , and even to widen the reforms of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , president salinas . but a currency board will also help launch financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms that have been starved of capital through the experience of recurrent crises and bad credit . mexico ’s economy has now had a good couple of years ; not very hard to achieve , given a thriving america next door , and big liquidity in global capital markets .
it is partly self-defense , partly an assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances , and partly a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration . it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . people who are suspended between a lost past and a future not yet gained the need for help . such assistance will not yield immediate results , but awareness of the medium term – which means readiness to face it by delaying immediate gratification – is also a sign of the liberal order . fighting al qaeda , therefore , is not a war ; it is not .
these are groups criticized by the obama administration and others for their failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be seen as a viable alternative to the current regime . groups such as the syrian national council are loose associations of individuals and groups , many of them outside of syria . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups within syria that are equally diverse and divided . it is between these groups that radical islamists have acquired a foothold . fears of another islamist takeover are the second major argument against toppling assad ; but the longer left remains in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by regulators ’ capture of the hearts and minds , and politicians on both sides of the aisle , have given a narrow private-sector elite – mostly on wall street – almost all the upside of a housing boom . but this was not a case of over-regulating and over-reaching . the downside was shoved onto the rest of society , particularly the relatively unemployable and underpaying who now have lost houses , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or all of the above . these people did not cause the crisis ; in fact , these people did not . but they are also paying for it .
unemployment stands at around 11 % , with record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . french leaders have shown an inability to communicate effectively or apply past experience in analyzing current threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overturning rhetorical battles about minor controversies . the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has led to large trade deficits and is undermining the competitiveness of small and medium-size enterprises . at the same time , the political crisis is impeding the government ’s pursuit of difficult reforms .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . but it is time for india to raise its aspirations . to that end , much remains to be done . in 2012 , two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening the economy – the official rate of poverty hit 22 % , less than half the rate in 1994 . escaping abject destitution , though an important milestone , is not the same as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic safety .
yet , far from making room for diplomacy , trump adviser sebastian gorka recently told the press that “ the idea that secretary of state rex tillerson is talking up military matters is simply nonsensical . ” south korean political leaders must also avoid being swept up by this intensifying war rhetoric . if this does n’t change soon , we may , as then-british prime minister david lloyd george wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle ] into war ” yet again . once the march toward war has commenced , little room has been left for diplomacy . but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat hold significant sway over military issues ?
alemán , too , faces a rebellion within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former us treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular majority in the party ’s liberal wing . though a three-way race is pure speculation at this point , it is clear that it offers ortega the best of all electoral worlds . alemán , too , faces a rebellion within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former us treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular vote in the party ’s liberal wing . while a three-way race is pure speculation at this point , it is clear that it offers ortega the best of all electoral worlds . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : are it preferable to align with a plc ruled by a corrupt alemán , or to promote a new democratic force , and risk assisting ortega to win ?
but , while for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private investment stable , friedman the key was to keep the money supply -- the amount of purchasing power in the readily spendable form of firms and households -- in a stable fashion . a difference of opinion that rested on differing judgments about how the world works , which could ( and ultimately was ) be resolved through empirical research , one might say . a relatively minor , technical difference in the means , one might say . and you would be half right , if at all . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary -- that a private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability ­, and that strategic , powerful but limited economic interventions by the government were necessary to maintain stability .
the prospect of american monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . the result has been the appreciation of the dollar against the euro and yen . the euro is down 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of the year , and the yen is down by 14 % . but speculators are thinking ahead and shifting from commodities today in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been a return to the dollar price decline forward today . the fourth of the channels , the exchange rate , have already been functioning .
i am aware that judge goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he was originally approached . but he was able to work with the council ’s president to secure an agreement that he felt confident would permit a mandate to be interpreted in such a way as to allow his team to address the actions taken by both parties to the conflict . this pattern of activism and inaction by the council placed greater credence to those who believe that the un ’s supreme human-rights body is inherently anti-israel . i was also aware that the un human rights council had made repeated condemnations of israel over the last two years , but had focused little attention on large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . i decided that i could not undertake the mission on these grounds .
in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union had considerable soft power . many communists led the opposition against fascism in europe , and many people believed that communism was a wave of the future . but soviet soft power undercut stalin ’s exposure to the war in 1956 and the repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . although in theory communism aimed at establishing a system of class justice , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , wide censorship , and ubiquitous informants . the net effect of such brutal measures was a widespread loss of belief .
coronado , california – most people do not think of charles darwin as the psychologist . in fact , his work revolutionized the field . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbes , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could only describe current mental events and behaviors ; they could not explain their causes . darwin provided a profound understanding that evolution influenced the shape of our minds as powerfully as it shaped our bodies .
indeed , evaluating the impact of any research project is difficult . even preeminent researchers may underestimate the significance of their findings at the time they acquire them . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , points out in a thoughtful editorial in the journal science : “ one can be able to recognize good science as it happens , but significant science can be viewed only in a rear-view mirror . ” when salvador , my university of microbiology professor , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon character to all who congratulated him on the award . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table .
it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing nearly all gdp gains over the last quarter-century . america ’s tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was wrong to pay a lower tax rate than his treasury secretary . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . and , when fully implemented ( in 2027 ) , it raises taxes on a majority of americans in the middle ( second , third , and fourth quintiles ) .
california , an american state with more than two million independent contractors , has attempted to resolve this question with a new law , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies regulatory criteria to determine how to categorize workers . but ab5 does cover the more than 400,000 workers who drive for platform companies like the ride-sharing services of uber and lyft , and the food-delivery firm doordash . a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be classified as autonomous contractors , or as employees of platform companies with which they have employment contracts , and for whose customers they provide services . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , legislators have exempted many types of independent contractors , such as physicians , dentists , and real-estate agents , on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . applying the three-part “ abc test ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for companies to classify their workers as independent contractors , rather than for employees .
making matters worse , the modi government , for the first time , has invoked section 7 of the rbi act , allowing it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on matters of public interest . the government is especially unhappy with rbi measures to clean up india ’s banks , many of which are encumbered by a large volume of non-performing assets and prevent risks from building in other parts of the financial system . such measures are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths to do so suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . of course , government ministers can not come right .
of course , abe did not face the sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did . as any democratic politician attest , disappointed expectations may well become the harshest electoral opponent of all . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; rather , he set a bold economic-reform agenda and promised to boost japan ’s global influence . but , after two decades of leaders with the possible exception of junichiro koizumi – which promised little and achieved less – japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe would follow through on his pledges . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy , but , for that matter , former french president nicolas sarkozy .
those individuals carrying at least one copy of a gene variant that does not allow the body to metabolize plavix have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent . in many such patients , the doubling of the dose of plavix , and checking a point-of-care test to assure suppression , may override the lack of response . there are alternative drugs , such as prasugrel or ticagrelor , that can be used instead of plavix to circumvent the problem . the story of interferon , given one year to patients with the hepatitis c virus , is particularly striking . this genomic variation is exceptionally common , present in 30 % of individuals of european ancestry , and over 50 % of asian ancestry .
the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt well beyond the country ’s borders . after all , war in colombia and elsewhere frequently unites nations , while the peace divides them . repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where the drug cartels are tearing apart the country , and the us , the world ’s largest source of demand . west africa , too , would be affected , having become the main transit point for south american drugs headed to europe in recent years . if chávez is a narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc .
at the heart of the budget is the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investments directed against the poorest of the poor . the key , however , is that the budget does not rely simply on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . thus , the budget supports critical areas of market reform and growth promotion , including measures to strengthen the financial sector , promote exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment . rapid economic growth is rooted in the private sector , including foreign direct investment . the second pillar of poverty reduction is targeted investments for the poor , especially for the rural poor .
in the middle east , countries are trying to figure out who should be contained . between the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west . in fact , exaggeration to the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism , may well play directly into russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are just a forum for making unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks the government experience – persuade other countries that adherence to common rules and norms such as open trading – is in everyone ’s interest ? domestically , he is trapped between the promises that he has made ( for example , “ mnuchin governs ” ” that taxes will not be cut for the rich ) ; president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the rich ) ; and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international scene , where american treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a hard time . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin .
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreement reached in paris this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the debate erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not commit firmly to limit global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but such a commitment would not have been credible . what emerged in paris was in fact better , because the negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
as a result , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school . unfortunately , they were educated in religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . fearing for their safety , muslim professionals began to move into ghettos . with discrimination soon cutting across class lines , increasing numbers of indian muslims began to look for linkages with muslim communities elsewhere in the world . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began to move into areas of social life where the state failed dismally , particularly education .
today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than state-owned firms ( soes ) . the government can not pay the unemployed workers their pensions because socialism bankrupted its finance . workers do not protest against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou , but against no jobs in socialist shenyang . with a fraction of the soes ’ resources , private firms employ much of the proletariat , produce goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , because of their superior performance , safeguard proletarian savers ’ interests by actually paying back their bank loans . why most pundits miss the fact that workers protest , not in the liberal provinces of zhejiang and guangdong , but in northeastern india ’s socialist bastions .
the average winning margin among the top eight world cup national teams has steadily declined , from more than two goals in the 1950 ’s to about 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , and just 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same is true of all the games played at the final tournament , not only those among the top eight national teams . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning the european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , a red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third divide ) once did . but , while we see inequality and exclusion in club-level soccer , the opposite is true of the competitions among national teams . the decrease in winning margins is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – many of them new and rather inexperienced .
in a omb document , the real interest rate on three-month us treasuries is expected to stay below 1 % over the decade . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked increase in long-term growth , as predicted by the administration , would be historically anomalous . furthermore , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost completely . in fact , the budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the blue-chip one in which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles at around 2 % . currently , ten-year treasuries offer more than three-month us treasuries yield .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics achieved by berlusconi , as well as an institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s last acts was to replace the majoritarian electoral system introduced in 1993 with a proportional rule . under the new electoral rules , seats appeal to parties in proportion to votes , but a special provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral agreements : the pre-electoral coalition that wins the popular vote receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) . this outcome would be accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself was to distance himself from politics in the upcoming electoral term . a new electoral system is transforming politicians ’ incentives , and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and fragile governments .
this is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and the industrial upgrading , rather than an unsustainable credit-led growth model , is the key to achieving high-income status . and he has had some success – to the detriment of economic growth . while the current 7 % rate is comfortable , it is well below the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . but there is more to assess wen ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off does . given the need for deeper economic restructuring – and given long-term demographic trends to shrinking the labor supply – pre-2008 gdp growth rates are unlikely to recover .
for example , how will a city cope with increased flood risk and how will agricultural land be maintained productively as droughts grow more severe ? the climate challenge demands much deeper public-private cooperation to increase green investment . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased impact of climate change , and to develop clear global standards to disclosing the climate risks that investment projects pose . here , public investment institutions like the european investment bank can help with adaptation in a number of ways . big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be affected by a changing climate .
the speaker was not some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . they plan and headline-grabbing strikes , using every means of communication to bully and break the collective will of the free people . “ more than half of this battle is taking place on the media battlefield , [ for ] we are in a media fight in a race for [ muslims ] ’s hearts and minds . ” consider the fact that violent extremists have their own “ media relationships committees , ” aimed at manipulating elite opinion . terrorists have skillfully adapted to fighting wars in today ’s media age , but , for the most part , american and other democracies have not .
recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civic claims for environmental tort and human-rights abuses before american courts demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those who have acted negligently or with impunity . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damage awards as a tool for controlling behavior , particularly in businessmen . all of this explains why sulpicio lines , the owner of the princess of the stars , have remained in business operations , despite its many lapses . simply put , philippine courts have not made it sufficiently costly to sustain non-seaworthy vessels . of course , exemplary and punitive damages in order to discourage conduct inimical to society do so on the statute books .
and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany has been acting more like an “ occupation officer ” than is a us diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments furious . but , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty are adding momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – a consequence of the euro saddling southern european countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash , which severely reduced their competitiveness within the european system . america ’s congress is considering legislation that allows the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms that take part in the project , even though such firms are contractually obliged to see work through .
it is certainly handy to treat a flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport controls to contend with departure and arrival . and it is undoubtedly convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at each border one crosses . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu territories without border controls . all have revoked controls at their shared borders and adopted a common visa policy for eu citizens .
defining such a strategy could help europe identify the areas for mutual accommodation . such cooperation is vital to fight terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . europeans have become dependent on such firms , all based in china or america . yet europe has made greater emphasis on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data-privacy regulations than by developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states .
the federal government , under both president george w. bush and barack obama , has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to go bankrupt . but lending would be inhibited , even if the banks were healthier . after all , small enterprises rely on collateral-based lending , and the value of real estate – the main form of collateral – still stands at one-third from its pre-crisis levels . simply add liquidity , while continuing current austerity policies , will not reignite the spanish economy . so , too , in the us , smaller banks that largely finance small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) have been all but ignored .
arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the us and the netherlands to punish them for their support of israel . the world learned that lesson following the arab-israel war of 1973 . oil is a fungible commodity , and markets are clear at a common price . but oil destined for the american and netherlands has moved to other countries like japan , while oil has destined for other countries to find its way to the american and netherlands . when the dust settled , it turned out that the american , dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same slack , paying the same harmful high price .
the world has been horrified by graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown on the military junta . that crackdown continues under cover of darkness . but the bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear rises . monks have retreated , and eerie normalcy have returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city and former capital .
germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that such sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . nor , of course , was it ever envisaged that greece would face its current economic trauma . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline , and its tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests , accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . the underlying issue is whether european monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece , or whether it can sustain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions against those who break the rules . admittedly , a country ’s economic performance after the oil shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , vast fiscal deficits , rising debt , a collapsing currency , and insufficient infrastructure .
these include the flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communications , modern information processing , and so forth . again , it would have been ludicrously expensive , or simply impossible , to achieve similar capabilities in the earlier periods of history . in thinking about the future of growth and the opportunities that continued growth will open up for all humankind , we should reflect on how far we have come . in the late roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat could buy a nomenclator – a slave-enclator tasked with memorizing names and face , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a basic smartphone is better than having just a dozen or even a thousand of nomenclator-like assistants .
insofar as this is true , the united states will not be replaced as the dominant power unless and until it is abdicates that role . this may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s international order . as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , one that – precisely for that reason – pursues its foreign-policy interests entirely unsentimental . the vital interests guiding chinese policies are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s ’s unity ( which includes taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for a long time .
the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s crisis set off a series of large exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , increased sharply . the government pursued fiscal austerity , but insufficient for the vagaries of the market . wages and prices fell , but insufficient to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of the agricultural goods that constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantages face high hurdles in entering rich countries ’ markets . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – some say it became substantially undervalued .
yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lessons of either episode . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-purchase restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stock . not only did they fail to mitigate risk , underscored in the collapse of 2007 , that new retail investors introduce into the market ; they have , in fact , exacerbated them , enabling , and even encouraged , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . when such a debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with the declining consumption contributing to deleveraging and private-sector investment . it is far harder to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than , say , that caused by balance-sheet distress in the financial sector .
faced with this uncertainty , they do not readjust their spending ; instead , they refrain from spending until the mists clear sending the economy into a tailspin . it is a shock , not adjustment . but i doubt that it has . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . when shocks to the system arise , agents are unaware of what happens next .
over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , especially in advanced industrial countries with aging populations , should worry about the sustainability of their policies . the financial sector has imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society . taxes on speculative activity might spur banks to focus more attention on performing their key societal role in providing credit . besides , well-designed financial-sector taxes might help to alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . america ’s financial industry has polluted the world with toxic mortgages , and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” the principle , taxes should be subject to it .
after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and economists less omniscient ) than they like to imagine . but the public reaction to them , together with recent oil-price spikes , may well account for a good measure of how changing market psychology is . attitudes toward risks change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’ remarks can precipitate such changes . so , while these things happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as carefully as they do to those of bernanke in trying to understand the direction of the world ’s stock markets . economists might not wish to focus on public thinking , and how it interacts with changing price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics .
new york – in their efforts to pass a bailout plan for america ’s financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . but , for most asians , economic armageddon is far more recent . the asian financial crisis of a decade ago has brought banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . the bonfire sparked the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 . contagion soon spread across east asia , with the ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil .
of course , plato ’s purpose in dialogue is not to define piety : if socrates knows a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by euthyphro , he does not reveal it . rather , plato ’s point of view is to show that the euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance about piety , and that euthyphro thus can not really know that prosecuting his father is actually the right thing to do . the knowledge that comes from this kind of self-examination is crucial in all decision-making . one ought to know the moral character of any kind of action that is contemplating . and to know that , one must be as aware of what one does not .
after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with water in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population . worldwide , one billion people lack access to clean water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . furthermore , water scarcity implies food scarcity , with the largest water scarcity . this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of hectares of farmland and causing power shortages . in north africa , the encroaching desert has displaced many people , exacerbating tensions between farmers and herders .
the era of “ easy ” gdp growth , driven by the massive army of young workers , is ending . emerging economies must contend with the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping policies , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative is a first step . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d has enabled the brazilian agriculture research corporation to pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects , including the design of a tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . efficiency has soared , putting brazil ’s crop yields on par with those of the advanced economies .
since the g20 ’s meeting at cannes last november , for example , europe has increased its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , established rules on fiscal discipline , and implemented a wide range of labor – and product-market reforms . but the magnitude of the challenges facing europe implies an urgent need for far more decisive reforms . to be meaningful , the message must be put in the context of action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and at a competitive level for meeting their commitments fully . we are confident that europe will act together to meet these challenges , and that we will continue to support such efforts , because european stability and growth matter for us all . second , we need a clear message from the g-20 that all of its members are delivering policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth .
they must work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized , lest they end up as anything less than number . refusing to prioritize , dealing primarily with the most publicized problems , is wrong . but not talking about priorities does not make the need to prioritize . whenever we prioritize , we say not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not step up our efforts ( which is viewed as cynical ) . instead , choices only become less clear-cut , less democratic , and less efficient .
this is true in most countries – including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world – though there are a few countries , such as norway , where people have a more realistic view . correcting such misperceptions will alter people ’s opinions about redistributive policies . the point is not to lose in endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , needed – to have meaningful discussion of inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of establishing clear goals . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate must be better informed . as it stands , surveys indicate that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , but still higher than the level they would consider ideal .
putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy ; but , for china , it was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable . similarly , denying any bank that trades with a russian bank or company access to america ’s financial system would create the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after communism ’s fall . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin , whose primary claim to leadership is that he ended the penury of the first post-soviet years , to continue with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , obama should emphasize their stake in the chinese of eurasian stability . those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy , and the us is leading the way .
many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some have gone out of business altogether . against that backdrop , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector has soared . the city of london , lower manhattan , and a few other centers have become the money machinery that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private-equity folk immoderately wealthy . university leaders like me have spent a lot of our time persuading them to recycle a portion of their gains into their old schools . things have been different for the past two years .
the horse-trading around the base has been intense . indeed , the policy has emboldened pro-russian politicians , who would love nothing more than to see americans kicked out in kyrgyzstan . in a february meeting , the american ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart about reports that china had offered kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion to pay kyrgyzstan ’s $ 3 billion , if the kyrgyz had shut down an american base . the two diplomats were conversing in russia , and the government was conversing . “ visibly salaristered , ” the chinese ambassador ) temporarily lost his ability to speak russian , and began spluttering in the chinese to the silent aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” ” ” according to the confidential american diplomatic cable that the web site acquired wikileaks.org .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them and prevent their resurgence is to ensure that economic opportunities are available to those who are determined to try . it is time that france begins questioning its economic model . in a recent statement about the burning suburbs , chirac declared : “ we will have to draw all the lessons from this crisis , when the time comes and order has been restored , and with lots of courage and lucidity . but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac ever anticipated . social assistance , with no hope of individual improvement , is not enough .
we believe that they are faster than us in acquiring and processing knowledge , because they have grown up with the tools and techniques we have lacked at their age . we need to study , teach , and practice tolerance – and instill in our children , both through education and our own example . we entrust them with driving our country toward new levels of growth and development , which is why we have now appointed a cabinet minister of their age and created a special youth council . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry only fuels rage fires . we can not , and will not , allow this in our own country .
in countries with higher price growth than in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can not produce anything but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to stem this flood of credit-fueled demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible and it is absurd to try . we know that ultra-low real interest rates produce massive credit expansion . how do you tighten fiscal policy to make up for more than 100 % of gdp in credit-induced spending power in only three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004-2007 , and in a sporting fiscal surplus in ireland ? to ask politicians in a democracy with large trade surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or public investment by the enormous magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes is to be out of touch with reality .
today , however , france and germany are less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration seems less strong . as a result , the french government is reluctant to force a confrontation with the british if there is a chance of a softer compromise in future . the problem is that this conspiracy of evasion may not work , and the significance of fischer ’s speech is that he is the first government minister in office to say so publicly , even if he pretends to say it in a personal capacity . in the past , no doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would collectively press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . but the bottom line is that constitutional changes can be undertaken only by a unanimous agreement , with several member governments starting with the united kingdom resisting any overtly federalist agenda .
enthusiasts describe it as a new brand of modern industrial policy that can help push brazil beyond its conventional role as a commodity exporter . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting requirements . markets for innovation and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help address those market failures . critics call this a misguided effort that produces only more distortions and retard growth . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is strong .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances . but , even if the problem can not be “ solved , ” ” ” ” understanding that it might help to contain the damage , not least by enabling leaders to avoid policies that are either not useful or exacerbate tensions . those among indigenous people with lowest incomes and levels of education will always be worse off , as long as they must compete with large numbers of young male immigrants . but the evolutionary psychology that stresses the competition of females may add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relations . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . in its most fundamental terms , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of relationship dynamics at a time when two partners draw more from one another rather than its inner strength . while i published a 2014 book on america ’s codependency economic relationship , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess national economies ’ behavior . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling as the world ’s two largest economies sink into a dangerous quagmire .
throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of the european union ; it is the american era of globalization . this is the point at which many begin to use a language that defines europe by distinction , indeed , to the american -- europe as an anti-america . but how is this identity to be defined ? comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism -- these are ancient and tired themes .
ironically , trump summoned the same robert lighthizer , veteran of japan ’s trade battles in the 1980s , to lead the charge against china . in both episodes , america was in denial bordering on delusion . unfortunately , lighthizer seems as clueless about macro argument today as he was back then . without raising national saving , highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory , trade will simply shift away from china to america ’s other trading partners . with this trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms worldwide , american consumers will be hit with the functional equivalent of a tax hike .
hollande ’s government and prime minister , jean-marc ayrault , have strong majorities at all the executive and legislative levels , providing it with a rare opportunity to act . if it can renew the european model at home , it will be able to project that success far more widely , especially in southern europe , turn reinforcing trust and faith in the eu , particularly among the young generation . finally , alongside the united kingdom among european countries , france retains more of a global role than germany has acquired . while the united nations security council is outdated in its structure , it still plays a pivotal legitimizing role ; and france , not germany , is a member . the french center-left must lead in conceiving a vision for europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength .
the third challenge , instrumental to meeting the first two , will be to foster regional arab solidarity . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the arab world ’s “ arab world . ” but the 2011 revolutions showed that a strong sense of identity , a common language , and much shared history bind arabs together , despite vast differences in natural-resource endowments , political , and average per capita incomes . the deep reforms – focused on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas – are needed to transform the process of learning , unleashing the productivity growth that a young labor force requires . how else can one explain that the revolt act in tunisia led to popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ?
america ’s largest tech companies are beginning to compete for talent by offering paternity leave . attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift in the us . who has the more flexible job ? who has a boss , or a company that better supports reconciling work and family obligations ? only one-third of unilever believes in traditional gender roles .
subdued wage growth boosts competitiveness , and underutilized labor and capital are re-deployed . how fast this happens in part depends on private-sector flexibility and dynamism . but it also depends on a government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function in aggregate demand , pursuing the reforms and investments that boost long-term growth prospects . several possibilities , not mutually exclusive , come to mind . if public-sector deleveraging is not a complete growth policy – and it is not , why is there so much attention to fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment ?
“ cities of tents are filling with the victims of the economic crisis , ” a reading one headline a month ago on the front page of the massachusetts american newspaper . it is wrong to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of social protection makes you stronger . by contrast , when the personal situations of many individual americans are investigated through european eyes , extreme individualism , which constitute a key part of american optimism translates into unacceptable societal damage . journalists report the tragic stories of middle-class americans losing their jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk without any social protection . who will pay for your expensive cancers if you lose the health insurance policies that came with your job ?
warsaw : recently poland has experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . it has focused on whether a " free " educational system should make a constitutional right . only by raising the issue to the level of the constitutional right , say the postcommunists , can the guarantee of free and equal access to education is preserved . a free or , as its postcommunist advocates prefer to call it , a " not paid for " education , means education in schools and state-owned universities ( but not in private schools ) . because of their dominance in parliament , the postcommunists ' intransigence on this point forced the other political parties participating in drafting poland 's new constitution to kowtow to its position .
best practices should be clarified , innovations identified and tested , and the knowledge and experience shared . sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation . the private sector also has a role to play in the shift toward unconventional water resources , a role that must expand beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities must be mobilized – for example , through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water resources . at the same time , governments must clarify the responsibilities of national water agencies and improve the capacity of water-related institutions at all levels to the institute of large-scale unconventional-water programs .
as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal . so , what can make of the may 19 deal ? given the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , this is largely a meaningless objective , particularly given the massive and ill-timed tax cuts and federal expenditure increases that america has enacted over the past six months . beyond a ceasefire in tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits . american negotiators are fixated on the targeted reductions of some $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe .
the unprecedented economic expansion that lifted millions out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , together with severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class , with those still benefiting from the region ’s rapid economic development , and whose health and well-being are adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at lower but still enviable , tariff – and improved quality . asia needs a strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional “ south-south ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift .
berkeley – the central insight of macroeconomics is the fact that came to be known by john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large gap between supply and demand for pretty much all currently produced by goods and services and types of labor , if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets . and this fundamental fact is the source of much trouble . a normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of currently produced commodities is not a serious problem , because it is balanced by excess demand for other currently produced commodities . as industries suffering from inadequate demand shed workers , the industries that are benefiting from the excess demand hire them . an economy quickly re-balances itself , and thus returns to full employment – and does so with a configuration of employment and production that is better adapted to current consumer preferences .
the prosecution then began to speak of a young girl as a chechen sniper , a family of snipers . last month , however , the military prosecutor adopted colonel budanov ’s argument that he was temporarily insane when the girl killed , and so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . ( the charge of rape , for some unclear reason , had already been dropped . ) outrage , secretary of defense sergei ivanov , dismissed a prosecutor who seemed ready to acquit a patriotic “ hero ” on all remaining charges . russian liberals initially welcomed budanov as a sign that the country might address the accusations that war crimes were committed in chechnya .
the good news is that the incoming administration can draw on the measures formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which has gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional us congress politics that have characterized most of obama ’s eight years in office . such measures address imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation . but , of course , america does not exist in a vacuum . once the team is in place , its members will have to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – by necessity , not choice – excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the plan must recognize that , during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation have been distorted , exacerbating wealth inequality .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business has worked – and when the power of such firms should be constrained . in retrospect , the breakthrough legislation – not only for the us , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill , which is preparing to pass the american senate , does something similar – and long overdue – for banking . prior to 1890 , big business was widely viewed as more efficient and broadly more modern than small business . most people saw the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , big firms as a stabilizing development that rewarded success , and allowed for further productive investment .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down and wrote a letter ? no , i mean an email or text message ; nor would i count a dictated message to a machine or personal assistant . no , i mean an old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or “ dear hillary ” letter . the reason i ask is that 65,000 people actually wrote such letters to barack obama each week when he served as president of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a white house staffers team would select ten letters each day to pass along to a president who would then respond personally to them that evening .
they may have told pollsters that they were prepared to pay higher taxes for better public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . but , ultimately , they would do exactly what they did in each of the previous four elections – a vote for a party that proclaimed “ every man for himself ” . today , this pseudo-marxist theory for economic determinism has been refuted once and for all . in 1992 , john major ran for re-election in the midst of an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of surging inflation . economic determinists predicted that he did not stand a chance .
the transformational goals and the inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india , or nelson mandela in south africa , can influence outcomes considerably in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . by contrast , american foreign-policy formation is highly constrained by institutions like congress , the courts , and the constitution . thus , we would have expected a less window of opportunity for transformational leadership . but even america ’s constitution is ambiguous about either the congressional powers and the president on foreign policy . transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style tends to emerge in periods of rapid and discontinuous social and political change .
berlin – it has now been 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization launched the plan for tropical forestry ( redd + ) , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . redd + has been created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the agreement governing its implementation is expected to be finalized during the united nations climate change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of the two agreements has been the production of the reams of expensive consultancy reporting . but if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + , replacing it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the latest international efforts to halt it , an initiative known as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) , looks no more likely to be effective .
it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . but ethiopia poses a dilemma for anyone concerned about human rights and democracy . britain and some other european governments have responded to the post-election crackdown by temporarily withholding aid . donald payne , a leading member of the united states house foreign affairs board and ana treades , a member of the european parliament from portugal and the eu ’s observation team in the 2005 elections , have sought to tie non-humanitarian support more closely to ethiopia ’s behavior on press freedom and other human rights . cutting off aids could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for an estimated 80 million people .
that is why the health-care industry must play a significant role in efforts to address the challenges of population aging . to keep people working longer , it is critical to keep them healthy . to this end , health-care companies should shift their research-and-development efforts toward conditions prevalent among older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem people ’s productivity and autonomy more effectively , by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision . old age must be viewed not simply as an inevitable stage of life , but as opportunities for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive .
the second big transition-financing opportunity lies in blended finance , or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . such initiatives bring together a wide range of public and private stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to finance projects with deep environmental and social implications . moreover , the blended approach helps to scale and de-risk projects , and to optimize their funding . the tropical landscapes finance facility , developed in indonesia in collaboration with the united nations environment program , is a good example . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits .
then panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries ’ financial systems and corporate sectors , which had experienced credit booms and borrowed short and in foreign currencies . emerging markets were initially saddled with this distress only when foreign investors started pulling out of their money . many emerging markets today are at risk of a severe financial crisis . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , have been the most fragile . but even better-performing ones , like brazil , russia , india , and china , are now at risk of a hard landing .
until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 brexit decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . but interventions by bercow and the eu have opened a whole new game , dramatically increasing the chance that brexit may not happen . almost three years ago , british voters did n’t really know what they were doing when they decided by a narrow majority to leave the eu . and if a new referendum were to occur , british voters probably would have to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining in the eu , because nobody will dare to offer hard brexit as an alternative . that would the foil financial-market speculators are betting on brexit , and is good news for both the uk and the eu .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path of reform that produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending the equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state controls was relaxed . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were given market incentives . mao zedong had died two years earlier , in 1976 , and deng xiaoping ’s newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded stamping out his vision of economic development and modernization on the third plenary session of the eleventh central committee , held in december 1978 .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american policies , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open struggle for dominance in the middle east . the united states has been strengthened , and iran – despite being branded as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” – has been catapulted to regional hegemony . iran could never achieve this on its own , certainly not in such a short time . the result has been the emergence of some astonishing , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas and the american-backed , shia-dominated iraq confront israel , saudi arabia , and most other sunni arab states , all of which feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance .
in the postcommunist social revolution ( less often noted than political and economic upheavals ) families and communities were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church was over-engaged in politics to help . old social structures were destroyed , socialist customs , and customs vanished overnight ; former norms and unwritten rules left behind . people were left to withstand the gales of change on their own . to be free but alone is not easy , particularly when habits of dependency are ingrained . fascination with liberal freedoms came in poland and elsewhere at a bizarre moment .
nor should today ’s uncertainties become a pretext to call into question the need to continue and complete the eu ’s enlargement process . the crisis , of course , emphasizes the need to strengthen the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . we need final and complete ratification of the lisbon treaty , in order to have the institutionally and internationally stronger european union that we need . enlarging the eu in freedom and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity , particularly throughout south-eastern europe , are in the interest of every european citizen . likewise , crises must not become a pretext for creating new institutional formats that jeopardize the different eu institutions ’ delicate balance , a balance that – through appropriate adjustments – has been proven by the test of time .
his motivation is not difficult to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help it to wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s ’s ’s main sugar-producing state , from upa in the upcoming state assembly elections . that goal explains another policy reversal as well . a commonly cited example of the outgoing government ’s alleged economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policies . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by major upa supporters , have supposedly drove the government to fix extravagant pricing and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to excess production . instead of eliminating this system , as predicted , modi ’s government augmented subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , raised import duties on sugar to discourage foreign competition , and increased sugar-based ethanol ratios , which must be blended with gasoline .
berlin – germany ’s social democrats ( spd ) existential crisis can no longer be treated like a typical party crisis . the party has captured mere 9.7 % of the vote in regional elections in bavaria this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , the polls indicate that the spd will lose still more support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but with the spd declining , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays a dominant role .
while russia itself will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning has been clear : it would be better for all sides if that money is brought home and invested in the national economy . in order to achieve this end , russia must develop a secure and attractive investment climate . russia ’s people need to be convinced of the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , no one suggests nationalization , as happened repeatedly during the eight months i was prime minister . most importantly , if we are to roll back capital flight , the government must persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment as long as ordinary russians keep their savings -- $ 50 billion according to most estimates -- at home ?
for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took heart and stopped being afraid of their repressive regime . they realized that east germany ’s realities were not fixed in stone after all ; it was achievable by the change that many brave dissidents and civil-rights proponents trapped behind the wall demanded for so long a while . their commitment against the injustices of the communist regime is to me one of the best chapters in german history . without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible . opening hungary ’s borders , which fall , and seek refuge by east german citizens in german embassies of prague and warsaw , already buffeted by communist and stasi rule on its foundations .
as a result , some – though relatively speaking , not many – undertake long and often perilous journeys to developed countries . and yet , when they arrive at the rich world at their doorstep , the welcome they receive is becoming increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic over supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes the space for humane , pragmatic responses . responsibility-sharing – the foundation of a modern international system to protect refugees – is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least able to cope . it is time to reboot global efforts to protect refugees . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with global reach , reflecting the sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , aid communities , businesses , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports and arts .
munich – the euro crisis has so far passed through six phases . it is worth recalling them because they show how policymakers stumbled along , trying to put out the fires without keeping an eye on where their chosen path has led them . currently , markets remain calm , but that is only the beginning of the seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe becomes mired in debt . a sequence so far has been as follows : the seventh phase of the crisis . the seventh phase of the crisis is one of enhanced moral hazard , stemming from the run-up in debt .
between 1985 and 2005 , boomsters made ten-year forecasts that exaggerated the chance of large positive changes in both financial markets ( for example , the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( for example , tranquility in the middle east , and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . they assigned probabilities of 65 % to the rosy scenarios that materialized to only 15 % of the time . in the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating the chances of negative changes in all the same places where boomsters have accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i still await the impending disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . they assigned probabilities of 70 % to bleak scenarios that materialized just 12 % . second , again , as the skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay penalties for being wrong .
the economic challenges of brexit would be overwhelming . britain would need to negotiate access to the european single market for its service industries , whereas eu producers would automatically enjoy an virtually unrestricted right to sell whatever they wanted in britain under the world trade organization rules . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member or simply at the wto . the past campaign ’s main economic argument – that britain ’s vast trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from a breakdown in business relations – is flatly mistaken . margaret thatcher was the first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services – not only in finance , but also in the law , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so on – makes eu single market membership critical .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence , and the elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . for that , understanding the historical context of the current crisis is crucial . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system ’s secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the military ’s power and the bureaucracy to check an elected government . in fact , the turkish military , with the judiciary ’s backing , explicitly intervened in civilian governments in 1960 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of protecting secularism . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , encouraged their followers to take positions in the bureaucracy and the military .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union has broken . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake has been the role of the europe of its most populous and economically most powerful country . what changed that night is germany , which europeans have known since the end of world war ii . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) and the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . europeans have been living in another eu since then .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab-led military history – unlike those carried out by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . by late 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser sent 70,000 troops in yemen to support a republican coup against royalist forces . such interventions were typically aimed at empowering proxy political forces over its military and political rivals , instead of averting a humanitarian disaster or institutionalizing a post-war non-violent conflict-resolution mechanism . despite the use of banned chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 – a first in an intra-arab conflict – egypt has failed to achieve its objectives .
beps were undoubtedly an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies used by multinational companies . unfortunately , however , this norm will apply only to very large multinational companies , and news reports are not publicly available , depriving civil society of an essential tool of transparency . it has initiated , for example , the sharing among country-by-country governments on such companies ’ ’ ’ profits and tax payments . the reform process was chaired by oecd countries , opening up to developing countries only after that initial package was unveiled . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework . ”
likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest to corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would broaden the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt finance , it would increase the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . reducing the tax preferences of non-corporate business entities ( such as partnerships ) that pass their income through their owners ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ individual returns would also broaden the corporate-income tax base . pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net business income ( by far the highest proportion in advanced countries ) . several of these entities are very large and profitable , and enjoy the same regulatory benefits as corporations . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not expand the tax base enough to finance a rate cut to 28 % .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of the gaza settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . but simultaneously israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to be governed by existing arrangements covering most aspects of security and civilian governance . this means that the israeli military will continue to enter gaza at will and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the land strip along the palestinian-egyptian border . such conditions rule out any possibility of forging a security plan that would receive the support of all factions , including hamas .
in some , like portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , farm employment ’s share declined by more than 20 % . in fact , since as recently as the 1980s , most oecd countries have experienced large declines in agricultural employment . in others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the decline has exceeded 10 % . almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in the us peaked at 53 % of total employment . today , it is less than 3 % , and it is just half that in 2000 .
islamabad -- as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hoping that the vote will usher in an era of stability and calm by lending popular legitimacy to the government . the upcoming elections , held under the illegal provisional constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are such a case , which makes my party and its coalition partners boycotting the vote . in fact , my party ’s support has been mounting , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular in the frontier province – and regaining ground in every other province . to be sure , contesting the election would give my party a tremendous opportunity to take human-rights issues . but , at times , democracy works best by refusing to participate .
likewise , they can not correct debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at elevated cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together . and it is good news that the official sector is paying more attention to joblessness – a very good thing . yet , sadly , this shift will not solve a problem that , at the social fabric of any society , eats off at the social fabric . just as bernanke and others wish otherwise , and as bickering politicians seek to dump policy responsibilities on others , central banks lack the proper tools to deal with the component of the unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , skills training , and physical capital .
most of china ’s internationally shared water resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . moreover , china recently slashed the flow of brahmaputra river tributary , bangladesh ’s lifeline , and northern india to build a dam as part of the major hydroelectric project in tibet . unsurprisingly , the plateau is a new hub of china ’s dam building . in fact , china ’s dam developers are targeting most of the international rivers that flow from chinese territory .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was crucial in preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it was . back then , the global financial system was tottering . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well . today , it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii .
they were not happy when their older sons became communists in the 1970s , strongly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father . other public services were improving as well , and parents believed that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had . but this was not a farfetched transformation in a town where people are assuming new identities , such as the nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist – downplaying their regional and tribal origins . this was certainly true of my parents , who sacrificed a lot to raise their nine children . schools were multiplying as the attendance surged .
and now policymakers must also devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself , ensuring that it is properly educated , and trained for the challenges that await the region . training programs in the gcc national health systems today do not focus nearly enough on innovation or systems thinking to improve efficiency and effectiveness . gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and subsidies for quality health care . this results from high turnover owing to overwork and increased need for foreign health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . but equitable distribution of health-care services across native and migrant populations is often a thorny policy issue .
the decisive moment came when de gaulle , in military uniform , traveled on television to demonstrate his mastery of the new medium . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , he called on the army to reject even passive association with an insurrection , and instructed it to re-impose the public order . “ well , dear and old country , here we are again facing a heavy test , ” ” he said . if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france that collapses . if a state bowed before the challenge it faced , “ france would be no more than a poor , broken toy floating on an ocean of uncertainty , ” ” he warned .
iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities , where they would discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about future − which might well cause them to reflect on why young iranians do not share that optimism . what we do know with certainty is that the regime is divided . these divisions will enable new forces to emerge within iranian society . so all means should be found to reach out to iranian society at all levels . just when the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad is merely an instrument of supreme leader , ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad has appointed vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later rebuked the appointment ) .
how can one evaluate a contribution to light infantry against providing critical enablers like helicopters or air-to-air refueling tankers ? traditionally , nato implemented a “ cost policy ” lie where it fell ” : each member picked up all the costs of the operating contribution it made to the alliance ’s operations . common funding , with all members paying a share according to gdp , is one instrument that can be used to achieve more equitable burden sharing . during the last few years , nato ’s funding policy was updated to allow common funding as a inducement to provide some theater-level enabling capabilities , like medical facilities , airports , handling of troops and supplies , or intelligence services . over what period of time do you make your calculations ?
meanwhile , aggregate demand has been restrained by debt headwinds , yet another result of easy monetary conditions . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underlying their policies . moreover , one could argue that easy money alone has contributed to the unexpectedly powerful deflationary forces seen in recent years . owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen as “ zombie ” firms have proliferated . in the face of these conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing appears particularly ill-advised .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year , the regime — once central to american strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable by america , which drops strong signs that there are alternatives to saudi military bases even to saudi oil . so , among a bad set of options , the least bad seems to be cooperation with the us . yet cooperation with the us may not gain much from the al-sauds , because saudi relations with america are being strained toward the breaking point . although the saudis were not included in president bush ’s “ axis of evil , ” ” ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as the “ kernel of evil . al-qaeda ’s terrorist networks are viewed as arising directly from fundamentalist wahhabi doctrine , which constitute an integral part of the saudi regime .
others disagree , arguing that the mind can protect itself by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it harder for victims to remember their most horrific experiences until it is safe to do so many years later . how victims remember trauma is the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry today . many clinical trauma theorists believe that fighting , rape , and other terrifying experiences are seemingly engraved on the mind , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that the mind can protect itself by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it hard for victims to remember their most horrific experiences until it is safe to do so many years later . these clinical trauma theorists , however , do not argue that either “ repressed ” or “ dissociated ” ” ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign .
as a child , mastering the cruel art of elé belé was important . everybody knew that a goal scored well . in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game my friends , we would let the new kid take place , but only after whispering into each other ’s ears , elé belé . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by a doting mother , we could convey to one another with a mere sight that the kid would be an elé belé . an elé belé is a player who thinks that he is participating but , in truth , merely goes along with the motions .
as the growth pessimism of the past few years fades , some of the warnings that have been made in recent years seem to have become outdated . northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , has argued that america ’s economy is bound to decelerate because today ’s technological innovations do not boost growth to the scale they have in the past . yet , while the zero lower bound no longer seems to be the binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one concerned about debt levels . northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , has argued that america ’s economy is bound to decelerate , because today ’s technological innovations do not boost growth to the scale they have in the past . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers got a lot of attention to his argument that the world risked sliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” ” ” because the interest rate needed to bring desired investment in line with desired savings is below zero .
india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and commitment not to roll back the natural flow of any river or reduce cross-border water flows . but even a expert-level mechanism , established in 2007 , merely to support “ interaction and cooperation ” on hydrological data , has shown little value . in fact , china has been damming most international rivers flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already at risk of global warming . the only rivers on which no hydro-engineering works have so far been carried out are the indus , whose basin falls mostly in india and pakistan , and the salween , which flows to burma and thailand . local authorities in yunnan province , however , consider damming the salween in quake-prone upstream regions .
perhaps but most students of currency policy view quantitative easing as textbook policies to pull the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” thereby preventing the onset of sustained deflation , which would exacerbate debt burdens . eventually , china ’s rapid growth will have to reflect a sharp rise in its currency , its domestic price level , or both . but , in 2011 , most of the equilibration will probably take place via inflation . finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . as for china ’s renminbi , a highly political exchange-rate regime is still backed .
which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? both india and japan are longstanding us-led global order stakeholders , emphasizing in their own international relations the values america ’s espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect the territorial and maritime status quo , and preserve freedom of navigation . moreover , they have shown their shared desire to uphold the existing asian order . with america being distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign , asia ’s other powers , especially an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are the best bet for the job . without such cooperation , china ’s aspirations would be constrained only by domestic factors , such as faltering economic , rising social discontent , deteriorating environmental crisis , or vicious politics .
the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the climate-change challenge . but , given that climate change is a more far-reaching and serious challenge , the world must not waver in determining and committing to addressing it . developed countries should also fulfill their obligations , under the convention , to provide financial and technology transfer to enable developing countries to address climate change effectively . as part of sustainable development and measurable , reportable , and verifiable support on financing , technology , and capacity-building are taking nationally sound mitigation action . moreover , appropriate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of the international financial order without leadership or direction .
a <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchase of the zero-interest-rate government bonds that are not repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over every time they mature . that is arguably what the bank of japan is now doing . the boj ’s governor haruhiko kuroda has stated directly that the budget deficit is not an option . but he has initiated a policy of replacing government bonds on the boj ’s balance sheet as soon as they mature , while steadily increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . this comes after years of pronouncements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money provides a way to overcome deflation ( with which japan has struggled for decades ) .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger at gop elites . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . his supporters resemble tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle class , and white . in fact , his voters ’ ’ average annual income , some $ 72,000 , is well above america ’s median of $ 56,000 . media outlets have provided as much as $ 2 billion in free coverage , helped him grab , and hold leads in polls and most primaries .
once a group of people is viewed as disgusting , the attention shifts away from them as a moral individual . they become soulless bodies , and the moral circle closes in to exclude them . our reaction to soulless bodies illustrates well illustrated in a story told about descartes after he died . it was known that descartes had an illegitimate daughter , a francine who died when she was five years old . the story , descartes was so struck by sorcartes that he created an automaton , a mechanical doll , built to appear identical with his dead daughter .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy our country ’s peace and stability . if these bombings are meant to send a message , i will sweep it off and crush it under my legs . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate a nervous reaction in the restricting of democratic rights . we will not change our course , but we will not be in a position to change that . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of the many conservative-pragmatists , who lean toward mousavi , who are in no position to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . he must stand with his two principal demands : the nullification of the election , and the establishment of an impartial committee to govern on the government ’s violations of the electoral law . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not obtain the presidency , but he will continue to represent the hopes of the large majority of iranians who differ dramatically with their government . mousavi must persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power , to be shaken . mousavi must continue his legal campaign carefully , without compromising the trust he has acquired from the majority of iranians .
but , even if yanukovych thought primarily of his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . there is also something even more important than one of his reputation in the world . imagine that he was stopped to ask himself what would make him happier . imagine that , with this question in mind , he had compared the alternative to a lavish lifestyle ( with the private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably on the substantial pay to which he was entitled , while knowing that he was governing with the integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s citizens ’ lives . a political leader has more opportunities than almost anyone else to help the people , and that should have been yanukovych ’s top priority .
indeed , the visit to incheon comes within a background of mixed messages . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained manner , or whether dprk officials and diplomats are merely putting a good end to their countries ’ reputation in the face of a nuclear weapons-monger and human-rights violator . indeed , the visit to incheon comes within a context of mixed messages . two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee on peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , which is officially a part of the korean workers ’ party , denounced the us as a south korean puppet regime , denounced the “ south korean puppet forces for seriously violating the north-south joint declaration and pushing north-south ties into the worst disaster . ” on the day of incheon visit , north korea ’s state news corporation continued the bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this is the american ulterior design to [ make ] zealously the south korean puppet force into escalating confrontations with the dprk in a bid to strain the situation on its extreme pitch and inflame [ a ] second korean war .
when an idea is both intuitively true and actually false , it is often because it is true on one level but not on the level at which it is applied . yes , humans do specialize , and so , too , should specialize . but specialization at the individual level actually leads to diversification . everyone benefits from each of us to become good at different things , and exchanging our knowhow with others . it is not efficient to a dentist and a lawyer .
gene-drive organisms are means to spread indefinitely , and mosquitoes , especially females , may surf air currents at relatively high altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where winds can blow them hundreds of miles . that choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders have already decided to proceed with release.reinforcing that conclusion , after the united nations convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between the requirement of free , prior , and informed consent in the face of medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) , and in a public-health context . civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have also not been adequately consulted on target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people were not engaged in a genuinely participatory debate on the target malaria project , much less expanded their informed consent . by contrast , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitoes to be halted until risk and effects were adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent is reflected in its own rhetoric that eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly uses terms like “ engagement ” and “ community acceptance . ” this means that consent would have to be secured well beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for limited time only ; get unlimited access toon point ; and the ps archive ; plus our annual magazine
new york – the world ’s labor markets are now interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us are in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs . they do n’t protest very much , but many of them end up in prison . many more have simply become discouraged and dropped out of the labor force altogether : not at school , not in work , and not in search of work . china ’s lower-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the standard for competitive competition globally .
article 7 of the treaty of lisbon stipulates the suspension of a rogue eu member state on voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires unanimous voting by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never be taken for granted . in fact , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that it serves the interests of rule-breakers by all but guaranteeing that they will not be punished . but the weakening of the rule of law is not just a domestic matter in hungary or poland . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , encouraging other populists to pursue their own authoritarian ends – and with eu funds to boot .
in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda by saying that there was incontrovertible evidence of a link with al queda and that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lies . detection technology made it clear that iraq had no nuclear weapons , as the chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . it is possible that bush read those reports but went beyond his comprehension . it is also conceivable that he did not believe what he read .
all of these groups are driven by a nihilistic rage born of hostility toward non-sunnis and rejection of modernity . returnees are present in many other asian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . unfortunately , as sri lanka bombings and other attacks in asia demonstrate , defeating isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , because battle-hardened fighters with operational training to stage savage attacks are now returning home . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth in the us-backed war against soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and the west for years to come . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how an obscure local group has been able to carry out sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosives .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in the land of blood and honey ” , ” holds the ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflicts in europe since world war ii . as jolie ’s movie so ably shows , neither the international community nor the local leaders have made a concerted effort to prevent the bloodshed . the film has already won two awards , and it is an emerging box-office achievement , attesting to enduring interest – and perhaps puzzling – that the balkan countries are holding for international audiences that have been as horrified as they have been puzzled by the events of the 1990 ’s . one exception – perhaps the single exception – has been kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president , who died while sleeping on new year ’s day at the age of 94 . for those of us living and working in the region during that turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh blows .
there is also signs that uk-based companies have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans after a prolonged period of waiting , planning , and more waiting . there is evidence of falling foreign investment , and this is contributing to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . and this process is likely to accelerate , even as british prime minister theresa may manages to secure her proposed exit deal through parliament . beyond shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also start relocating jobs .
he recognizes that shared sovereignty makes europe more influential , thereby empowering its citizens . and he views globalization as well , but understands that it must be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . opinion polls are currently bouncing wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in hamon ’s support among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . but if macron qualifies for the second round , he represents a greater threat to le pen than an outright left candidate could . he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and effective , but also supports national and european-level decision-making when that is appropriate ; the key is that the processes should be flexible and allow citizen participation .
the european project is a realist ’s response to globalization and its challenges . it started to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promote political stability and consolidate democracy and the european social model . having achieved these goals , europe now wants to make a positive contribution to the world ’s developments . an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in collective mourning and the outpouring of sympathy towards spain ; we must build on that enormous potential to create a logic of solidarity around the world . this is not a nostalgia for past glory .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did n’t no one see it coming ? ” they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data collection . ” krugman ’s cheerful response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . while this was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual issue ” – that is , it did n’t demand that they reconsider their theory .
one aspect of this difference is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to the onslaught of abstract liberal institutions such as freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should not be too surprising . after all , the liberalism in eastern europe is a import of western europe . notwithstanding trump and the brexit phenomena , both american and uk governments have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is also more focused on areas such as charity , religion , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s post-communist states , the left is either very weak or fully absent from the political mainstream . the same can not be said for kaczyński.another major divide is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond concerns about physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values .
unless germany can shift to a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection is likely to turn out right . yet , while the bulk of the press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains strong . as for the eurozone , we seem to have been overly optimistic even as we foresaw a decline in potential growth to 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters put the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . but that is a big if , and it is true .
in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion in the financial costs entailed by turkey ’s accession . immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workers ’ party would probably be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a prolonged transition period , possibly not before 2025 . given turkey ’s anticipated upswing in the economy and its declining birthrate , experts predict a figure of about 2.7 million immigrants by that point . but the size of these transfers would depend on eu financial policies at admission time , the outcome of accession negotiations , and economic developments in turkey .
more than most people realize , the gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- as perpetrators of a crime that lives on every generation . anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew , in which jewish crowds cheers for christ ’s execution and voluntarily accept lasting guilt : " his blood be on us and our children . " matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus 's body : " his disciples came at night and stole him while we slept . " the later evangelist john concludes that because jews deny the christian messiah they must be " sons of the devil . " just as whites attribute extraordinary sexual powers to blacks , the christian west 's instinct is to treat jews as masters of extraordinary powers -- including the power to kill deities and control world finance .
encouraged by the illusion of a strong reserve position , the thai central bank took on the imf -- and lost . by the time the crisis hit , thailand looked to all the others who turn in its desperation to the imf . so the idea that the “ this country is different , ” that the rules of global finance did not apply , proved utter nonsense . thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble of bets against imf , an opening salvo in a crisis . but , with too much macho , too much politics , and provincialism , reform never occurred .
that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well equipped : they can raise the public ’s conscience , but they can not formally commit governments . it was not least thanks to the effort of the protest movements that france has now made concessions on both these counts . hence , the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests have extracted , the hour of governments came to power . but how can these concessions , given the duress , be secured ? only other governments can do that .
compounding the challenge , the cohort of informed elites in russia is growing . as the top russian propagandist , dmitry kiselev , recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . but , because the regime is being forced to dedicate more resources to silencing the informed , the majority will suffer economically . most of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china does not weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency for strategic ends is their ability to do so if they are so desired . many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should call its bluff . china ’s currency policy has come to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods .
my professional focus is on economics , which is why i emphasize the role of growth . but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . in the us , for example , the foreign-born share of the population rose from 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today . beyond contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , immigrants also often complement native-born workers ’ skills , helping them to earn more . culturally changing developed countries are , perhaps even more so .
the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the birzeit university student movement in the 1980 ’s and one of the leading organizers of the first intifada , resulting in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change of leadership – and , more important , the transition to the post-oslo politics . the plo ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the liberation organization from exile and returned home with the oslo accords – dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . after they depart the scene , palestinian leaders born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons will most likely fill the vacuum . in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to a prolonged prison term on charges that he led the second intifada , which began two years earlier and ordered some of its military strikes .
these are key ingredients in the nationalist ba’w that appears to appeal to russians nowadays . judging by putin ’s most recent address to parliament , his regime is acutely aware of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . the regime is likely to attempt to counter this eruption of nationalism , while maintaining its strong statist rhetoric . but , in order to defeat the far right , putin ’s ’s regime will be forced to assume its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . this wo n’t be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the bureaucracy and the security establishment .
today , coal and natural gas provide more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . in taiwan , tsai is just as committed . last year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan a nuclear-free point by 2025 . this new load would easily replace rural electricity in six nuclear reactors . tsai called for the share of renewables to rise to 20 % over the next eight years , with capacity coming primarily from solar and offshore wind .
rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on fuel derived from peanut oil . in recent decades alone , biofuels regained their original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate incomes , and mitigate the dependency of which ford warned . as production of these fuels grows , we will require policies , programs , and capacities that ensure that they are used sustainably , free of distorting food markets , or compromising food security , which will always be the first priority . henry ford once scouted florida in hopes of buying land tracts to plant sugarcane , convinced that the united states does not tolerate the pollution from burning fossil fuels , or the dependency implicit in importing oil to make gasoline . the pioneers of biofuels would probably be surprised by how little they contribute to the total global fuel supply today .
others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as the barbarian society survivors on horse sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , the future prime minister , told audiences that he was more afraid of germany ’s sausage than he was of germany ’s navy . one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food . in towns , displays in shop windows illustrated the cost of tariffs to ordinary consumers . liberals and radicals organized travel shows , color posters , and political entertainment . one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food .
europe should now use the calm of the storm fronts to rethink the european currency union from the ground up . an inordinately lax regulatory environment has proven lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european government and bank bonds . when the greek bubble burst , it left in its wake woefully expensive economies that lost their competitiveness . europe should now use the calm of the storm fronts to rethink the european currency union from the ground up . the effort to create the european equivalent of the dollar and impose a fiscal union on top , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fail .
indeed , the latter now accounts for more than 15 % of gdp . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness can be lessened . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming of floating exchange rates . a hits in chinese exports is likely to take the region ’s currency depreciations , nevertheless , unlikely to be felt instantly . rival asian economies will need to be stabilized before they can push their exports aggressively .
moreover , there are real disagreements within the american bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to american interests . for europe , this situation is worrying about two counts . operationally , it is limited to the isr and does not involve ground troops . following from above thus has operational and symbolic significance . symbolically , it implies backing the initial and significant efforts undertaken by others .
on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions , such as pension funds , can be identified and taxed . this is mostly the case in europe . the private sector had large foreign assets , while the government held about the same amounts of foreign liabilities . even so , argentina went bankrupt because wealthy argentines had spirited their assets out of the country , and thus out of the government ’s reach , while poor argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to satisfy foreign creditors ’ claims . this analysis suggests that the “ excessive [ current-account ] imbalances ” procedure that is to be introduced under ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
the stars of barcelona , real madrid , chile , and milan are household names . disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems largely from their shared love of football ( soccer ) . but exposure to foreign television networks also implies that many disillusioned algerians are looking to flee to italy , france , or germany as their sole hope of employment and a decent life . will the coming months bring genuine change to algeria ? will social and economic reforms be undertaken to ensure an equitable distribution of the country ’s oil and gas wealth ?
it is not yet clear what led greenspan to support the tax cut . lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a housing price bubble . was it a massive economic misjudgments , or was it curtailing favor with the bush administration ? in short , as greenspan departs , he leaves behind an american economy burdened by high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability . the most likely explanation is a combination of both , for he and bush pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy , which calls for tax cuts to be used to reduce revenues , thereby forcing the public sector to shrink .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants toward europe . land-related issues will continue to threaten global stability , especially as the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war .
because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita to the carbon dividend . more to the point , they would pay far more than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would get back more than they put in . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly wealthy high polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income low polluters all while reducing co2 emissions . on its own , it would represent a smart step in the right direction , one that does not invite the “ yellow vest ” reaction . but do n’t let someone tell you that it is a silver bullet .
a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive of political leadership , as well as accommodating the trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel does not make speeches attacking a strong euro and the european central bank ’s price stability mandate . rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing the euro , and the ecb sends wrong signals . this is not to say that merkel is free-market capitalist . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb , and has let germany ’s trade unions and companies know that they will have to live with a strong currency and anti-inflationary monetary policy .
owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of europe . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans do with respect to security . just as there can be no french security without germany , there can be no german security without poland . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it concerns the rule of law , integration , and peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ interests . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a bad idea ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu – particularly in trump ’s age .
indeed , very few of those who receive ect also do not receive benzodiazepines , causing significant autobiographical memory problems , when given alone , and antipsychotic drugs , causing difficulties with names or telephone numbers , as well as other comparable problems . there is no dispute that ect can cause the loss of short-term memory . but the critics have found it hard to demonstrate memory or other cognitive problems that endure beyond three months . the same is true of alzheimer ’s study . nor can ect autobiographical memory disturbances , and the inability to remember lists be readily attributed to ect , because ect is rarely given on its own .
if a cac required , say , 75 % of holders of each bond class , the vultures could buy 26 % of only one bond class and block a complete restructuring . but no government has found cacs adequate for resolving domestic restructuring . so why should we think that they would have suffice in a far more complicated world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? cacs , in particular , suffer from a “ aggregation ” problem . if they were , there would be no need for domestic bankruptcy legislation that spells out issues like precedence and fair treatment .
holding talks in a current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial investment of political capital for a lasting period . we have arrived at this point precisely because both russia and the west have spent more than a decade seeking unilateral advantages and eschewing negotiated compromises . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . a quick agreement will be impossible to achieve . the eu should strengthen the case for open dialogue and tough negotiation – precisely what has long been missing from western policy toward ukraine ’s crisis and the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region .
but it also represents the global gold standard in a wide range of fields , including technology , defense and research and development . america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew only very slowly until the 1930s , when a new deal that included federal programs , public works projects , and financial reforms and regulations was implemented in response to the great depression . america ’s federal government expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal to support unionization and home ownership ) . the government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience instilled in its citizens and leaders a devotion to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy .
france has suffered more than 230 deaths and about 700 injuries , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and some 900 injuries . abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the november 2015 paris attacks , has claimed that it is one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . the precise number of european fighters who have received training from isis and returned home remains unknown . isis has reportedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter-security , and forgery . so far , isis has hit france and turkey the hardest .
in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which holds the key to increasing girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . but a shortage of qualified female teachers is scaling up such efforts difficult to avoid . to account for a learning crisis in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . women account for just one-third of all afghan primary and secondary school teachers , partly owing to ultra-low female literacy . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to open its doors to innovative ngo models like brac ’s community-based education program .
in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state expenditures to finance the regime ’s allies and clients , rather than benefiting entire populations . these economic shocks have exposed the massive costs of each country ’s sectarian-based political system . these regimes have dominated each country ’s private sector through cronyism , not just to extract and distribute rents to its clients , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that could finance an opposition movement . as a result , capital and skills have been misallocated , the business climate has worsened , with competition , innovation , and growth suffering . and protesters , fueled by economic grievances , have been emboldened by the improvement in broader security conditions , owing to the islamic state ’s defeat and the wind-down of the war in syria .
this raises the old question of whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union , or at least stronger and more binding fiscal rules ( the maastricht deficit obligations are too easily violated ) . but the decreased flexibility in response to economic shocks will surely test it . to that we must add to coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies , as deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to national guarantees and insurance in the euro zone . will the euro ’s second decade be as successful as the first ? currently , it boldly emphasizes a mismatch , even discordant , fiscal reactions now being embraced by european union governments .
but imagine a world where textbooks are continually updated and corrected by a legion of contributors . such a world was just a dream ten years ago . today , pluto remains on the planet ’s list in science textbooks and who knows how long it will take for it to take off . today , language barriers prevent many immigrant parents from helping their children with homework because the texts are only in english . but imagine a world where textbooks are continually updated and corrected by a legion of contributors .
one strong school of thought that emerged almost as early as the killings began in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders had been reckless . indeed , so the proponents of this school often add ; china was not yet ready for democracy . it should have been clear to them that a violent crackdown was inevitable . by provoking the regime , students derailed any chance of slow political reform that their more moderate elders had carefully set in a train . if only they could take place in china .
yet international donors are dragging their feet on both meetings in meeting existing commitments and making new ones . delivery problems abound in war zones , but not everywhere . and all aid in the world will not stop the killing . it is too late now for non-military tools of coercion to have much effect , even though the security council ’s threats of the international criminal court to prosecute atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . but what of the military-response options still strongly favored many policymakers and pundits ?
for example , when trump calls for reduced american military involvement in the middle east , he is merely echoing obama . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is driving them practically into china ’s arms . yet , by reneging on the nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war in the region more likely . trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . and , by trump ’s move away from easing north korea ’s “ international isolation , ” he has strengthened china ’s position in east asia .
it is just as vitally important , though , for committees to develop along similar lines in each country ’s provincial districts . merchandise need not pass through the capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with associated cost increases . regions , after all , can be turned into engines of growth . every country could create a council that represents public bodies ( transportation , public works , customs ) and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs . communications between users and government services are vitally important to achieving any real improvement .
the fdp ’s ideas have wide support in germany and among german economists ( and are shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they are in keeping with the positions taken by germany ’s ministry of finance under its previous government . but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets could be dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . the idea of a temporary european exit is especially ill-advised . as we saw ten years ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of uncertainty can become fragile and collapse , imposing high costs on society .
will it return to robust growth , or will the us experience an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i cast my vote for the latter , especially given that the vast debt legacy is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the big stimulus that is required . many wall street financiers , having gotten their gobs out of cash , are returning to their fiscal religion of low deficits . with no adequately large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , we will face a vicious negative spiral : a weak economy implies more bankruptcies , which will push stock prices down and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence , and weaken banks . consumption and investment will be cut back further .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than a billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers even more could double average incomes in the poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years . yet , in rich countries today , sentiment has turned against free trade . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be better addressed ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits .
when muslims form a minority , they have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the “ american versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which is why the idea of an active “ islamic world ” comprises only a relatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whether they like it or not , most sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are mostly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions . nonetheless , muslims in sub-saharan africa , like most muslims around the world , exhibit an “ us versus them ” mentality .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” only “ serves as a pretext for doing nothing about health , about education , or about redistribution . ” and it is an obsession rooted very large in the current one . “ one percentage point of real growth implies doubling your economy ’s size every 30 or 35 years or so . ” piketty sees that as the grounds “ to be somewhat optimistic . ” “ we forget that for centuries growth was essentially zero , ” he writes .
that language represents a sharp departure from that of previous official eu communiqués . for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . europeans , too , are rightly concerned about economic issues . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is “ an economic competitor in the pursuit of technology leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . ” the next year will be critical .
a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that promote massive amounts of fed-funded debt . though the democrats have frequently criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . a final question to consider when assessing the american presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as the next american federal reserve chair . center-leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg , might reappoint powell , who has done fine , or select moderate democratic economist like former fed chair alan blinder , or former us treasury secretary larry summers . trump , who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would most likely select a dovish nominee .
other recent “ terror ” – related reporting has been as flimsy . the boston globe , for example , ran an article about the man , identified only by his first name , danny – whom the brothers carjacked just three days after the attack . the globe ’s one-source report proved nothing – and was unverifiable by other reporters or citibank – but suggested a lot , leading to the spate of equally unverifiable reporting that new york has been targeted . in charles savage ’s recent account of the guantánamo “ uprising , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in charles savage ’s recent account of the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials depict reporters on a video still . danny claimed that the brothers ’ sole word ’ conversation was that he understood to be “ manhattan , ” and that the terrorists asked him if his car could leave the state – say , to get to new york
a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international institute for food policy research , examines the worldwide economic downturn starting in 2012 in the face of rural populations . it finds that as a downturn shows , with 38 million more people remaining in extreme poverty in 2030 than likely would have been otherwise , with farm households in middle-income countries particularly at risk . at the same time , these gains have not been evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than other areas . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to end poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” and reinforces the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , where poverty-reduction measures are needed more , and will have a larger impact . rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their future potential .
such policies could then be completely subjugated to the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility . but , once the political franchise was enlarged , the working class was organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals began to compete ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . a classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar period . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose domestic reflation over the gold standard . the bretton woods regime ’s architects kept that lesson in mind when it redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 .
washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa are working in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their gender – or , more specifically , because of the dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that put them at a significant disadvantage . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , a significant share of incoming refugee populations are said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including difficulties in retooling and retraining workers , particularly the long-term unemployed . as the german government and some corporate leaders , including the ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , a open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration can help to mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including the difficulty of retooling and retraining workers , particularly the long-term unemployed . while pockets of high unemployment exist in europe today , the ratio of workers to the elderly will decline considerably over the longer term .
and if access to a variety of valued benefits , from health insurance to pensions , is made conditional on registering their business and paying taxes , they will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of workforce benefits and responsibility to employers . for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber and walks a dog for another hour on a rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount toward its or her benefits . this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their benefits , and eventually acquire a safety net like a full-time contracted employee . with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers will grow .
for starters , they must take action to protect the rural environment , ensure animal welfare , and improve education , knowledge transfer , and business training for farmers and agricultural workers . they could , for example , facilitate farmers ’ provision of affordable insurance , or create some kind of mutual-assistance schemes . implementing ( and financing ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . for starters , they must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters , by building more effective and robust protection systems . at the same time , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector can tap into new technologies .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key interest rates have remained close to zero for six years now . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of such a policy are becoming increasingly apparent – and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , and the central bank , with its central bank , is the world ’s largest .
we ’ve ’ve ’ve seen hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone that allows the gestural finger motions ; but , in the intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users might scarcely recognize what it was . when improving a computer ’s interfaces , form is the key . designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction . the telephone dial did not appear until 1919 , when the first group of self-organized self-organized “ user interface scientists ” ” ” ” ” ” ” scientists ” ” ” ” at west electric claimed what the most counterintuitive form should be . it is easy to forget that , years ago , telephones had neither buttons nor dial – you had to pick a handset and ask an operator to make the connection .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name means “ foresight , ” ” because he always looked ahead , unlike his carefree brother , epimetheus , whose name implies “ hindsight . ” but epimetheus was charmed with pandora , and heedlessly welcomed her life . it was only later that he came to realize his horrific error . as the more rational and justifiably paranoid of the two , prometheus tried to warn his brother not to accept zeus ’s dangerous gift . but that is not yet the whole story ; it is not yet the whole story .
indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one can argue that the immediate cause of a meltdown when examined closely is not really all that serious . the crux of the problem is that the draft constitution would give the eu a new , much easier method for taking majority voting in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each member state has a certain number of votes , weighted according to population , but small countries are protected by having proportionally more votes than big countries . the chances , then , are that they will do so again . this system is known as well as a qualified majority vote , and it is the right kind of majority voting .
rome – the prices of many staple foods increased dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , high demand for crops from bio-fuels , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal production . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as did protectionist measures , such as export restrictions . while these factors have undoubtedly placed upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain steep hikes . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , have reached their highest levels in 30 years , causing political and economic instability – and leading to food riots – in many countries .
the similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring . erdoğan ’s ambition to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving it to collude with this challenge to the western-devised regional order . indeed , turkey has offered logistical support to the islamic state , even as it has enabled the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . this highlights another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . in a video produced after the fight for mosul in august , a group called for the “ end of the sykes-picot , ” and proclaimed the need to redraw the middle east ’s western-imposed political map .
so far , he has refrained from claiming , outright , that these markets act at the behest of world jewry ” ( architects , many turkish islamists believe , from the 1908 young turkish revolution , and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but perhaps no current leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannabe ’s authoritarian , donald trump . it should never be forgotten that trump has wormed with us policy by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument , which argued that then-president barack obama was not born in the us , and therefore did not qualify for the office he held . since entering the white house , lunacy has only grown . but his core supporters hear the dog whistle behind his condemnations of the forces of finance – the forces that now seem to be demanding higher interest rates .
the us is also doing everything possible to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . in the energy sector , the us is privatizing state-owned energy distributors . to ensure complete transparency in the tender processes and eliminate the problems that it has experienced in the past , western counsel is assisting us . indeed , the ten leading international energy companies will participate in the privatization of the first group of companies . for our intention to attract big western energy companies with experience in this field as strategic investors .
to be sure , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( though they later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged as well by the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for a return to government intervention ) . even so , chinese policy choices have dramatically influenced other asian countries , with china ’s “ state capitalist ” economic model now imitating elsewhere in the region . in japan , the postal service that has been privatized is to be re-nationalized , with the role of government finance being strengthened . japan ’s air lines , which have been near bankrupt , rescued in a government bailout , a device that seems increasingly common .
since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . capital flight would materially add to their plight , in some cases disastrously . but , at least , europe has benefited from falling commodity prices . without the ecb ’s commitment to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring since 2012 , there would be lingering risks for the eurozone – and , indeed , to the european union ’s entire edifice – of sovereign-debt defaults . by contrast , many emerging-market economies , highly dependent on commodity export earnings , have been stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china .
let the world recall that gaza ’s crisis is a manmade disaster . and let the world take note that conditions are worse today than at any time since the occupation began . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food aid . almost half the labor force is unemployed ; local industry has collapsed . water and sewage systems are failing ; garbage roils .
new york – the european union needs to accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that has transformed this year ’s growing influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . every member state has selfishly focused on its own interests , often acting against the interests of others . this has precipitated a panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and the authorities responsible for the rule of law and order . the eu needs a comprehensive response to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over the flows of asylum-seekers so that they take place in a safe , orderly fashion , and , at a pace reflecting europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity to absorb them . asylum-seekers have been among the main victims , and some of them are now the leading victims .
economists would admit that xi ’s campaign also conveniently removed many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now allows him to substitute for a credit-financed growth model with something more sustainable . this is where the technologists come in by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes . of course , whether they are right about that remains to be seen . despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and broadening his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with maintaining rapid growth .
the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that the monetary union would create intra-european conflict . at that time , he derided and considered an entrenched opponent of the european project . unfortunately , his insight was right : european countries today are at loggerheads not despite the common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers are a serious danger . in the 1920 ’s and 1930s , representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at that time , mainly german reparations ) .
the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between rich and poor , urban and rural populations , and between coastal and inland culture are so great that it is much harder than before people from varied walks of life to feel that they share common plights and goals . of course , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society . sometimes , like the violence recently used to quell south chinese peasants protesting official land grabs , the ccp still shows its willingness to use “ boot-on-the-face ” suppression . still , there have been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell . whereas a key distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people are broken up in different social orders , defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles .
fear of losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what a government can and should do are not immutable . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances . there are similar trends in many european countries as well , especially southern europe . this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunity face an uphill battle in winning over voters .
copenhagen – in one of his first public-policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama has focused on climate change , making it clear to both his own priorities and the facts on which those priorities rest . according to obama , “ few challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than fighting climate change . ” such a statement is now commonplace for most political leaders around the world , even as it neglects to address the question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . obama ’s policy outline was presented via video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors of global warming summit , and has again been shown in poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out the global warming roadmap . unfortunately , both are weak , or even downright wrong .
its “ civilizing ” mission has created a sense of collective meaning , as well as the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identities has always been incomplete , not least in iran , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later , through the uncertainty generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ” before the creation of an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – the english built a land empire , by expanding from the south of the british isles to the northwest . thus , whereas the “ outer empire ” has allowed for the convergence of the uk ’s different national identities around a shared british identity , the “ inner empire ” has been decidedly english . still , for centuries , the british empire has generated wealth , supplied raw materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all of the british isles .
moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . that is why corruption has spurred mass protests from bucharest to brasilia over the last year . freedom of expression and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as the authoritarians claim . they are indispensable to safeguarding free societies , and they are indispensable . while a majoritarian government can ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , the corrupt regimes are stealing from all .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic views should be judged against this background of disenchantment , not with an ideal moral or economic standard . the promise to work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is reasonable , even as it implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . viewed in other words , trumpism could be a solution to the crisis of liberalism , not a portent of its disintegration . viewed in other words , trumpism might be a solution to the crisis of liberalism , not a portent of its disintegration . trump ’s isolationism , however , is a populist way of asserting that america needs a withdrawal from commitments that it has neither the power nor the will to honor .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s purported intention to “ divide jerusalem . ” as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present the framework agreement for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu is a simply a non-starter . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that could yet again unravel the israel-palestine peace process . in a last-ditch effort to improve the proposal ’s chances of success , american president barack obama – who has largely avoided taking a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his stance . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy – not least because of the domestic political pressure he faces .
new haven – last summer marked the start of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks – the american federal reserve and the bank of japan . the fed has done nothing , which is precisely the problem . and the alchemists at the boj have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . moreover , their latest moves reinforce a deepening commitment to the increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies entrusted to manage .
today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia is very much part of the solution . if the prague summit will not showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched the new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . it was henry kissinger who argued in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of 2001 that tragedy can be turned into opportunity . much has already been accomplished over the last six months to transform rome ’s political message into practical cooperation . the new nato-russia council , created in rome , offers us an effective and flexible mechanism for joint analysis , joint decisions , and even joint action .
to the outside world , suleimani was mastermind the regime ’s terrorist activities outside iran , with a puppet master of its proxies throughout the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . nonetheless , over the last few years , the regime has pushed a clever public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders untainted with corruption allegations , he has been mooted as the likely presidential candidate in the next election . yet to iranians , he has been a more complicated figure . while regime hardliners view him as a hero , the many iranians who have lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations or who object to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora have seen him very differently .
to square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he plans to cut the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from wealth taxation . a vocal critic of protectionism will push for the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . his endorsement of el khomri , which made it easier to fire workers , and his opposition to the 35-hour week , indicate his desire to increase the french labor market ’s “ flexibility . ” yet he also wants to invigorate the economy with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and expand the welfare state .
prague : many americans seem to be overtaken by the feeling that because the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war can be crossed by the list of potential risks . america , they say , should pay attention to its own problems and should not engage in a world where its attempts at doing good are rewarded with ingratitude . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . never in modern times has isolationism kept america out of peril ; instead , it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze . in the end , america pays 1,000 times as much for its initial lack of interest than it would pay had it become engaged at the outset of the crisis , or , better yet , even before .
using the asset-backed security model , the us recently joined with the un green climate fund and china to structure the $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this will allow pension funds and insurance companies to finance indirectly the necessary equipment upgrades in mom-and-pop stores and workshops from tijuana to tierra del fuego . there are many other areas where those committed to fighting climate change can follow our example . here , too , we can find creative solutions . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing expanded bus rapid transit ( brt ) systems is a proven way to reduce congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
the political terms of a new grand coalition government , it would seem , are clear . the spd should hold out for ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , while the cdu/csu holds the chancellorship . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , and i believe , regain control over its borders , enabling it to strengthen and enforce the necessary limits on migration . such alliances would also enable a new european foreign policy , one that is promoting peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that do not depend so heavily on the us . eurobonds , a green partnership with china , and unity within europe could make all the difference .
that is why it is time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-focused first and second arrows to a supply-oriented third arrow : a new growth strategy . fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do . in any case , the success of monetary policy is hard to deny . when enough excess supply is in an economy , fostering supply-side productivity is practically useless without efforts to boost demand . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the overall impact of monetary policy will weaken , because it increasingly influences prices more than output .
race has always been a provocative topic when the needs of science and statistics intersect with politics . now that debate is heating up again in france , as the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has produced a fierce feud that touches the very heart of french republicanism . the first is the republican principle , enshrined in the constitution , that recognizes only citizens , and accepts no distinction among them because of origin , race , or religion . now that debate is heating up again in france , as the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has produced a rage that touches the very heart of french republicanism . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government officials are forbidden to collect information about a citizen ’s ’s ethnic or racial origins , whether real or alleged , when conducting a census or other efforts to gather statistical information on the population .
in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . no one prefers living in a society where bribes must be paid to secure basic public services like health care and education . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinning the belief that greed can be ignored , accountability can be taught , and impunity can be ended . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving this goal . prevention should start with education aimed at elevating citizens ’ expectations .
in these countries , ministers are forced to resign for petty infractions that would seem trivial in other countries . but the goal is certainly worth embracing , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of wellbeing . recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in society is high , economic performance improves and life satisfaction is higher . among other reasons , commercial agreements are more easily reached and efficiently . convincing american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption , indeed , may seem a futile task .
the fed has begun a process of normalizing monetary policy , but it has failed to complete work , and us president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent them from doing so by heckling from the sidelines . the three musketeers remain positive about some elements in the post-crisis agenda . there is an urgent need to “ restock the emergency arsenal , ” particularly when there is relatively little scope for relax monetary policy . as they put it , “ applying fiscal adrenaline to the fed could be limited just when it is needed most . ” bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and the transparency of derivatives markets materially enhanced .
as a case in point , many western observers thought norway ’s trade relations with china would be undermined when the dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , refusing to allow liu to pick up the prize , and even threaten norway with a financial crash . the same month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies has concluded a drilling deal with norway ’s statoil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions do not stop with business . so the western diplomats who negotiate with china should call lower-level officials ’ bluff , focusing on signal-to-noise ratios bearing in mind that ultimately decisions are taken quietly at a higher level by pragmatic leaders who are indeed susceptible to pressure . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china .
that means that the system ’s focus must shift from more speculative , proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which implies reforms of financial-sector regulation and antitrust and corporate-governance laws , alongside adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth . the us might hopethat america shows more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; addressing global warming ; democratizing the international economic institutions ; and offering aid to poorer countries . americans should hope for all of this , though i am not sanguine getting a lot of money . globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn demanding greater global cooperation .
the ongoing struggle in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . but the stakes are far higher than they were in seventeenth-century europe , because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to acquire nuclear weapons . indeed , iran is the only country that openly declares its desire to destroy another united nations member . so little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states strive to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . that issue , of course , is entirely outside israel ’s ’s control .
the strategic significance of the dramatic heights , overlooking the majority of the northern israeli region of galilee , is obvious . so , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides . both parties ’ agendas vary , but , while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of the golan ’s return , israel wants a specific , entrenched guarantee regarding the security of its northeastern border , as well as the end of syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country that is practically a syrian protectorate . because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem may be more elastic than before , when the golan was a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all the way to vladivostok . for israel , the quid pro quo for returning the golan is no piece of paper with conventional phrases about peace and coexistence .
while army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are all too disgruntled by the recent police and military reform to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces from the provinces , staffed with the chechen war veterans , may cherish the excitement of sticking it to moscow ’s fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for the salary hike that putin ’s united russia party has announced , with much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma elections . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would be difficult to sustain . in the fall of 1989 , east german soldiers joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . during the same year in china , however , protesters in beijing crushed soldiers from inner mongolia , ignoring mandarin and unsympathetic big-city dwellers .
that is why european leaders have taken the ambitious steps they have done . the crisis of 1992 proved that the current system is unstable . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government bond purchases would similarly lead to disaster . but not proceeding would , too , have been a disaster . not moving forward to the euro would set europe on an even more disruptive crises .
moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as president , he emphasized that he was from hawaii and proud to be “ america ’s first pacific president . ” two years later , former us secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america ’s pacific century , ” ” ” indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy . but her diplomatic cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime while continuing to supply it with military hardware , can serve only to undermine bilateral relationships , just as the same american approach to musharraf ’s regime has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . surely , the us claims , too , that it knows all about democracy .
mr. bush 's international credibility , they should emphasize , does not suffer through avoidance of war but gains further through the control of iraq 's hitherto covert military effort . to give an additional credence to their praise , they should leave no doubt that if war becomes the only option they would stand by america . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only and certainly not the automatic " serious consequence " to follow from the iraqi non-compliance . of course , some of america 's allies are better suited than others to get these points across the audience on the other side of the atlantic . alas , the german government by its conduct in chancellor schroeder 's re-election campaign last september maneuvered itself out of having any authority on the issue .
africa ’s smallholders , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations , face an even more daunting bureaucratic barrier : no paper to prove that the land they call home is theirs . this is especially true of female farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land and customs . insecure of their ability to control their farms in the next season , farmers ’ planning horizons shrink . instead of investing in terraced fields , planting trees , and purchasing high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize short-term profits . studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without strengthening land rights , particularly for women .
coupled with all of this is northern european discontent with central bankers specifically with the ecb and the euro . i think that germany would be better off in a decade under more neo-liberal policies . but this does not seem to be what the german electorate wants , and this does mean that the complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable . it is not that the end of european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is merely that people have begun to think of a possible low-probability futures in which the end of emu might be put on the agenda . that is enough to shake asset prices worldwide in the future .
its organizers , of course , are loath to describe it as sunni parties . rather , it is described as a national party that invites people of all the orientations to participate . that vision has great appeal among those seeking to see a less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . but , within iraq , very few people – sunni or shia – see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than second-place finisher , maliki ’s state of the legislative coalition .
in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector , representing $ 8.5 trillion , remains weak and unable to generate sustainable profits . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu ’s economy , and , ultimately , europe ’s entire political experiment . for deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to be anticipating a merger , such as commerzbank , another german institution . but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” with too many branches , far too few deposits , and funding costs that far exceed those of their more successful peers . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system by the imf ’s own estimate will require at least one-third of european banks to close or merge .
none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks . they should take special care to prevent real-estate bubbles , because real estate constitutes a huge share of overall wealth and a key collateral source in finance . monetary tightening can slow growth temporarily ; prevent asset growth is notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly ever popular . today , ’s febrile political environment certainly will not streamline matters . but the powerful rise of low quality-leveraged loans should also be a concern .
in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new debt approach . so perhaps the eu can be a good idea to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed . indeed , the principle that the ecb does not reneging on public debt is deeply intertwined with the development of statutory security , a representative government , and a modern democracy . so it might be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed . but the european central bank , notably the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has spelled the case elegantly against debt reduction – a case that is both politically significant and deeply moral .
in fact , some highly conservative republicans object to another of his appointments , marvin carnegie mellon university ’s friend for daring to suggest that the fed may need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis . and , while someday , the fed will almost surely embrace this advice ( i have also published on the issue ) , goodfriend ’s nomination barely survived the american senate banking committee . but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , with many republicans embracing a disrupter for example , a disciple of ron johnson ’s “ end of the fed ” paul ii , or another conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . trump may just be keeping his powder dry up until a genuine conflict erupts . unfortunately , the fed ’s battle for independence is far from complete .
yet india continues to face many challenges : nearly 300 million people living in poverty , the spread of naxalite rebellion , the hazards of terrorist attacks by india ’s mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage the rising middle class ’s expectations of better infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? these problems will not be solved overnight . but the growing conviction that the benefits of tomorrow will be better preserved in india ’s polity makes it stable .
empirically , few firms get this right : america ’s national public radio and the bbc have both recently hacked seas , while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts . finally , the ap is unlikely to face financial penalties for this mistake . a lawsuit for the losses stemming from a hoaxed tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles . because few mechanisms can prevent the proliferation of hoaxed tweets and , given the high-profile response that successful hackers can expect , twitter will remain a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers make attacks more contentious . the proliferation of security lapses means that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to cast the first stone at a company that is violated .
by using cutting-edge climate models , scientists are not only detecting long-term climate change ; they are also attributing at least some extreme events to human causes . a new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our knowledge , and also gives us an even more cause for concern . detection means determining whether an extreme event is part of conventional weather fluctuations , or a symptom of deeper , long-term change . attribution implies a ability to assign the likely causes of events to human activity or other factors . several studies in the past year have shown that scientists can indeed detect long-term climate change amid rising frequency of extreme events , such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and severe storms .
america can reduce its deficits more rapidly than it would in an non-cooperative case , but only if surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings . the international exchange-rate system is , at least partly , broken . if it works , what will emerge will be commitments from the g-20 countries to undertake policies that are globally beneficial – on a condition that others keep their commitments . the mutual assessment process that the g-20 countries have agreed is a crucial component of the rebalancing program , for it is where pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative ; it is not the only ones .
given the power of big tech firms to stifle competition , reversing such trends will require government intervention . but the solutions that have been proposed , including by legal scholars such as linda khan , tend to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the united states ’ 2020 presidential election . in particular , senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren , in my view , the two strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump have called for disruption of major tech firms . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived .
during each of my field visits , i marveled at how these efforts affect women ’s lives . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial situation or education , deserve to ascribe to themselves . on one recent trip , i met rasmata , a young mother telling me that , owing to her savings group ’s safety net , she manages to support her family , despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and lingering drought . she was diversifying her income , administering her finances , and even adopting climate-smart farming techniques . the best part was that she described herself as “ hard-working , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious women . ”
stock values in the fossil-fuel industry , which are based on the assumption that companies will be able to extract and burn all known reserves , plummet . investing in such firms , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . that reality implies another compelling case for divestment . if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate that possibility . as anyone who receives investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ”
it became evident only in the late 1970s and 1980s that the soviet system could not compete with market-based capitalism . the ensuing quarter-century was a period of liberal rules-based multilateralism . after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , that g2 world gave way to a g1 + n order in which all other countries ( brazil ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . democratic and market-based capitalism had seemingly triumphed in what francis fukuyama called “ the end of history . ” america broadly championed this order – the iraq war in 2003 , and , like most countries , benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new complex value chains .
instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government announced deeply unpopular pension reforms that included increasing the retirement age . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has led to weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . addressing russians ’ economic grievances will not be easy . russia ’s economy is under severe strain as a result of western sanctions over crimea . with few options for rallying public opinion , putin may well have decided that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under attack .
first , eu member states say that they want to develop a common european foreign policy . yet , in practice , there has been little detectable progress . this contrasts sharply with other aspects of europe ’s agenda . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing so ; and at amsterdam last year , they ostensibly strengthened those institutions . the goal of economic and monetary union , and the single currency , which was also adopted at maastricht in 1991 , is a bold , even revolutionary agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will be a reality in just two months ’ time .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more lasting alliances , such as nato . this last point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , particularly at this late stage , alter the fundamental perception of that intervention , both within and outside the arab world . only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can ensure the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – demands .
meanwhile , the civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe . this regional re-alignment need not necessarily be anti-western ; it surely will be if israel and/or the united states attacked iran militarily . indeed , bosnia-type scenarios can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of losing the syrian government ’s control over its chemical weapons poses the immediate threat of military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive , but it is determined to fight until the end . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups are clearly predictable .
yet , in recent years , governments have also stepped up their budget clout . in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated funding is growing . for decades , governments have played a major role in domestic media , using the regulation of broadcasts frequencies , and licensing requirements to shape the market . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenues . unfortunately , while this windfall might be putting more air programming , it only deepens the industry ’s woes .
as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right of protection ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even as enforcement remains quite uncertain . finally , the same developments in politics and international law led to the establishment of an international tribunal for justice ( icc ) . with its establishment having long and appalling experience , the basic idea of modernity – that empowering states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of law , thereby placing individual rights above national sovereignty – has taken a great step forward . this development has been anything but accidental . the next big step was the rise of the concept of humanitarian intervention after the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s .
according to the tft approach , a bilateral game should start with cooperation : if the other player behaves cooperatively , so should you . only if the other player defects – that is , begins to depict non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . axelrod has held tournaments among major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a prisoner ’s dilemma . the victor – the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome – was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . to be sure , when the other player cooperates , it might be tempting to defect to increase your own payoff , and potentially even secure a windfall .
unfortunately , however , the economic trajectory that the us congress is plotting , although it may well boost growth in the short term , is ultimately on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . as for threats from the far right , anyone is hoping for peace in the region and reducing tensions within india among religious communities relief the defeat of the hindu hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s ’s ’s ’s strategy of painting the us congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india has badly misfired . the majority of the world ’s malnourished children are living in india .
and , indeed , there can be no denying that friedman ’s cure has proven to be an inadequate response to the great recession , strongly suggesting that it will fall similarly short of what was tried during the great depression . but it is relatively clear that , even in the 1970s , there was not enough empirical evidence to support friedman ’s ideas to justify their growing dominance . the dominance of friedman ’s ideas in the beginning of the great recession has less to do with the evidence supporting them than with the fact that the science of economics is all too often tainted by politics . in this case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and apply keynesian and minskyite policies on a large enough scale to address the problems the great recession presented . admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate would require mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . on the one hand , the euro has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-driven economy , from speculative attacks and currency volatility . on the other hand , the second phase of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . rising tensions within the eu have been the inevitable result . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis have been plainly contradictory .
moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the goal of destabilizing the predominantly christian south . sudan ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process , and derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for sudan and the entire region , is a real possibility . after all , the regime ’s oppressive nature in khartoum is at the root of the many conflicts that have bedeviled the country apart . indeed , since the civil war ended in 2005 , the people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently been forced to confront militias that operate as government proxies .
but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a large scale . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but only a few remaining areas in a world where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . ) one approach is to capture co2 at a power plant as coal or gas burned . the second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground . another is to capture it directly from the air using specially designed chemical processes .
figures recently released by new york attorney general , andrew cuomo , indicate that nine large financial firms paid their employees aggregate compensation above $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization has substantially declined . such patterns may raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures are not well designed to serve their interests . in the post-crisis financial order , governments must assume the role of monitoring and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur . it is important to distinguish between the two sources of concern for pay in financial firms . one set of concerns arises from shareholders ’ perspective .
it is time to call a spade a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly responsible . but when democratic senator diane feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , the republicans overwhelmingly opposed it . it is time to call a spade a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly responsible . consider the issue of “ bump stocks , ” ” gun-modification that the las vegas massacre used to fire more quickly . some republican senators have now drawn praise for indicating that they will support a ban on the facility .
by 2000 , that share had fallen to 22 % , and by 2010 , to 11 % , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . today ’s chile is very different from chile in 20 years ago . the 29 % of the population that left poverty behind are now an incipient middle class with new aspirations and goals . as a result , demands for more opportunities and improved living conditions have grown louder . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to improved health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the most important factor in social advancement .
clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . true , clinton offers numerous programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme to her pudding . clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . success in us presidential politics requires super-b intuition , being quick on a single ’s legs , and , above all , a compelling rationale for running . true , clinton offers numerous programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme to her pudding .
only a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meeting in washington , dc , senior staff told anyone listening that the entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest at a teapot . as the situation deteriorated , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its beliefs to markets , as it has , and adopt a more cautious tone . even for greece , the imf has argued , debt dynamics are not a serious concern , owing to anticipated growth and reform . never mind a obvious flaw in the fund ’s logic , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policy and implementation risks far more similar to emerging markets than to truly advanced economies like germany and the united states . using slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default in today ’s advanced economies : useless , undesirable , and unlikely , ” the fund tried to convince investors that eurozone debt was solid as a rock .
another alternative , supported by a large and growing body of research in economics and psychology , is direct measurement of well-being or happiness . surveys of reported wellbeing levels are now available for many countries , and the idea of cutting to chase by applying it as the metric ’s prosperity metric has strong advocates . one way to make such indicators more directly relevant to policy would be to track the ways that people use their time , and attach wellbeing measures to each . but this option has several drawbacks , including the fact that indicators of well-being change little over time . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically suggest a six or seven on a 0-10 scale .
these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . the shift toward finance that thatcher promoted heightened inequality and made the economy more volatile . her “ right to buy up ” policy triggered an upward spiral in house prices , which encouraged households to take on more and more debt . if that is the metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism failed . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , de-regulated financial services , made risky behavior at the city the norm .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations , particularly those pertaining to advanced economies , have little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated staff as well as its unique linkages to countries . yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it has valiantly taken the lead in shining more light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change . but its forward-looking analyses have all too often turned into backward-looking , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to significant revisions .
indeed , the predominant view in arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free of their belief that the islam confines all arab women to the same extent when in reality they experience very different terms . this is particularly necessary , because women ’s situation is one of the main benchmarks that the external world , and especially the west , uses to assess the arab world . and , unfortunately , such assessments tend to focus on the supposed imsm that derives from islamic norms , which obscures the knowledge of true changes taking place . this prevents many from viewing , much less evaluating , the deep changes taking place in arab societies – and how women drive those changes forward . thus , the west risks depriving itself of an important key key to understanding the arab world today and as it will be tomorrow .
riesman ’s framework has distinctive resonance in the arab world today , where rising rates of literacy and rapid advances in communications technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three types competing to define the region ’s future . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , the religious books are among the most downloaded works of literature in the arab world . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and advanced technology , which is fanning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . in a lone crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that look to inherited rituals , morals , and values for guidance ; inner-directed cultures in which people behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that react predominantly to external norms and peer influences . taking advantage of their capacity for massachusetts to manufacture and instantly disseminate ancient religious texts and western-originating literature , both camps ’ fights over the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies .
until recently , there was little reason to ask such a question . china ’s ’s authoritarian efficiency model seemed appealing for many other developing countries , especially in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states , thereby appearing to discredit an american-style liberal capitalism . until recently , there was little reason to ask such a question . china had overtaken japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . hundreds of millions of chinese had entered the middle class , and china had entered the global economy .
the reason that this narrative is wrong is simple . there are good reasons for america ’s adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . then the us established lasting normal trade links with china , and refused to label its government a currency manipulator . in helping mexico , brazil , and other developing countries grow , america is catching up richer trading partners . moreover , there is a strong case for improving american national security if , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world are learning how america has helped their countries prosper , rather than trying to keep them as poor as possible for as long as possible .
according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , almost 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and , with respect , more than half of the payments are made in cash . as is often the case in europe , differences among member states are pronounced : the share of money trades ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong , becoming stronger . there is one more important problem with the arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do not want it . but it is an open question whether the still highly fragmented digital-payment sector will help customers more than companies offering payments solutions .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . one vehicle failed to break through its border crossing ; another penetrated israeli territory before being stopped by israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed an egyptian military base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers and sped to israel ’s frontier . but egyptian president mohamed morsi a civilian coup in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the army ’s leader , did not diminish the importance of trouble there .
cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated regulations that fail to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but , because countries that rely largely on active diplomacy and soft power have everything to lose from a prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to choose sides . but they also know that bilateralism – small countries trying to negotiate on equal terms with the superpowers – is not an option . to defend their interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the status quo .
moreover , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments use new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . in kenya , all public-sector officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies are obliged to sign performance contracts with the central government in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates , and to explain how these are being integrated into policy and development plans . grassroots assessments of progress against these indicators are intended to complement a government-led reporting mechanism . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” are making the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . ghana and benin , meanwhile , emphasize budget expenditures that have high sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its financial priorities align with its stated commitments on this objective .
it is hard , at least for me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would transfer any significant portion of today ’s rich nations ’ wealth to today ’s poor nations . i can readily envision alternatives , such as the communist victories of the post-world war ii elections in italy and france , which would have impoverished nations now in the rich north . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 . but alternatives that would have made the south richer at the price of reducing the north ’s wealth require a wholesale revolution of human psychology . on the global level , it is hard to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s major political-economic problems .
other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the total lenders ) would receive $ 15 billion . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . and , because the debt restructuring stipulated that all lenders who accepted it could demand the same terms as the holdouts receive , argentina might be on the $ 140 billion more . each argentine might therefore owe more than $ 3,500 , over a third of average annual per capita income . nancy capital and the rest of the vultures comprise just 1 % of the official creditors , but they would receive a combined $ 1.5 trillion .
new york – the authority of the united nations has frayed . major international financial institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the regional development banks – are having to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . it will be essential after bali , to reflect seriously on the next phase for the wto and its role in the international trading system . until we reverse the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges will not improve . business can moan and the media can carp , but responses to many of the world ’s great problems are more – or at least better – government , not less .
getting into debt was long associated with profligacy , or fecklessness . and , if a person became indebted , the point was to repay the obligation when it fell due , by selling assets , reducing consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . the same attitude governed institutional debt . indeed , it was often more than a point of honor : the failure to repay the debt on time landed the borrower in prison . economists and moralists were united in believing that you should actually spend less than you earn – to “ save ” ” the proverbial rainy day or old age .
the soviet union ’s abrupt collapse was asia ’s strategic boon , eliminating an menacing empire , and opening the way for china rapidly to pursue its own interests globally . more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 enabled asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse was asia ’s strategic boon , eliminating an menacing empire , and opening the way for china rapidly to pursue its interests globally . more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 enabled asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . that example , in turn , had a constructive impact on surviving communist parties in asia and beyond .
in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in free and fair elections , after which morsi resigned from the party , saying that this would allow him to represent all egyptians more effectively , promising that he would respect minority rights . yet subsequent actions designed to give him unprecedented executive power raise concerns about these early positive steps . similarly , rather than condemning the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria and al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dan , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . while none of these groups represents a majority , they do exert significant influence , and probably believe that they are acting in popular interest . developments in the wake of the arab spring may provide some indication of the prospects for religious tolerance .
today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably deng xiaoping and others of the party elders – have died . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been divided over the event ever since it occurred . fourth , the reversal of the verdict on june 4th is the historical inevitability , as is the wish of most of china ’s people . june 4th weighs the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; almost every chinese person knows that official reevaluation is just a matter of time . this group will unite with the forces of democratization both at home and abroad to establish a truly democratic system .
by joining the euro , italy has surrendered monetary sovereignty to an external , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . it has also committed concrete commitments with respect to the conduct of its fiscal policy , although these constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . these obligations place real limits on the italian authorities ’ macroeconomic policy choices . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority , allowing financial markets to veto the choice of a minister by a popularly elected government . in particular , the absence of a domestic currency means that italians can not opt for their own inflation target or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies .
in pakistan , the extremist now wears islamic garb and stands for a creator , for beliefs and a theocratic order . what , on the other hand , might a pakistani liberal stand for ? in the dark , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but for the believers to unite behind one true faith . in any contest of thought , the extreme tend to triumph over the moderate . once again , we see how misplaced western national priorities can wreak havoc on a non-western nation .
there are strong grounds for believing that they should be . for example , most draft mammals , if at all , must be slaughtered by a method that minimizes their pain and distress as much as possible . such laws resemble regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which require that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when they have their throats cut and are “ betting out . ” there are , of course , circumstances in which stunning fails and animals kill while fully conscious ; but , when stunning works properly , it reduces the suffering of animals . japan has relatively strict laws protecting animals ’ welfare ; it is the natural environment .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his political communications skill , perhaps because he is so different from predecessors such as franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like campaign speech ; and , after taking office , a series of fake statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but strengthened it with his base . although large segments of the american population loathed them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , trying to appeal to the center . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” trump , by contrast , appealed mainly to the minority that elected him .
greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poor african countries have been able to keep inflation well within a single digits , one can presume that greece would have managed as well . far more important to achieve price stability has been the advent of a modern , independent central bank , a facility that has helped dramatically reduce inflation levels worldwide . yes , a few places such as venezuela still have triple-digit price growth , but are now rarities . indeed , if southern european countries kept their own currencies , they might never have dug in as large a debt hole and had the option of a partial default through inflation . it is very likely that if , instead of joining the euro , italy , and spain simply granted their central banks more autonomy , they , too , would have low inflation today .
speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump ” peaked in early september , when the us president suddenly cut a deal with the democratic congressional leaders . cohn ’s sin was to let it be known publicly that he almost resigned following the violence last month in charlottesville , texas , when trump equated white supremacist outrage and neo-nazi demonstrators , many of them armed , with those who opposed them . actually , one can have some sympathy for a president with an aide to his hope that both ways , as cohn did , letting his apparent anguish be known without acting on it . but there can be problems when a president chose to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn had been viewed as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices , wanting to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve .
resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . on may 17 , the advocacy organizations , oxfam america , have sued the american securities and exchange commission to issue a final rule implementing the section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act . but the risks are just as true as potential rewards . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to revenue management and environmental commitments – is critical for realizing an industry ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries suffering from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and major evolving and environmental challenges .
indeed , scores of people fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . recent personal experience at new delhi airport has indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government requires , are loosely enforced , with countless passengers exiting the terminal holding an completed ebola information card that is supposed to be passed on to immigration officials . it seems unlikely that india ’s government will be able to keep tabs on all west africa ’s arrivals . links to west africa are close and back in the last century , with almost 50,000 indians or people of indian descent living in the region . while exit controls are on the rise in all of the affected regions ’ international airports , the virus of incubation periods ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but can be up to 21 days ) means that someone with no symptoms from a recent infection could make a trip to india without triggering alarms .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has announced some of the most draconian public-sector cuts that any developed country ’s government has ever attempted . indeed , its education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s universities would be slashed as much as 40 % . the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new , though this is the first time that the fighting has migrated so directly to britain . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than the science and engineering that are supposedly better for business . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized the national endowment for the arts .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given to saif al-islam and security officials surprised me . given the recent wave of uprisings , it is more evident than ever that any “ reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world previously were aimed solely at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for criminal abuses of power . the reform of debate ” within these regimes boiled down to a struggle between different branches of the security-military apparatus over the best ways to preserve the status quo . when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given to saif al-islam and security officials surprised me . for him , it was “ repentance from heresy . ”
how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise interest rates on deposits to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ? what if that interest rate had to be 4 % , or 6 % , or even 8 % ? sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the pool of private lending . that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how it would work in practice . if credit expands too fast , the fed can raise the interest rates that it pays on deposits .
they tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the american and chinese , was at risk of crisis . they called for a process to ensure that when the warning lights flashed yellow , the country in question would be compelled to correct its policies . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting the last crisis than are preventing the next one . the nature of financial risk is constantly shifting in ways that are hard to forecast by backward-looking indicators like those devised by the g20 . policymakers at nanjing have promised to address this problem .
why should obama , a constitutional scholar , be backtracking on this way ? first , he dare not appear to be “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs to try guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting , or even keep them out of trial forever : lawyers claim that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the us military that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are crimes scenes . according to wells nixon , a lawyer at the center for constitutional rights , who represents some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling torture practices crimes , so it calls them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in court . moreover , obama sought to suppress hundreds of photographs depicting sexual assault in us-run prisons , and did nothing to roll back the patriot act .
when the authorities – specifically , the federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this is impossible , they have the legal authority to compel the banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without causing yet another “ lehman moment ” ” – that is , the type of global panic that resulted in the days after lehman brothers ’ failure in september 2008 . in particular , experts like hoenig ’s who came to think about the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy emphasize that it simply would n’t work for the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , the bank of america ( $ 3 trillion in assets ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such issues , and to prevent asset grabbing . “ panic ” is about panic , ” hoenig says , “ and the people and nations generally protect themselves and their wealth ahead of others .
paris – the central paradox of french politics was reconfirmed on march 27 . but le pen was replaced in january by his no less charismatic daughter , marine . and , with that change , the front ’s fate can be changed . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( the so called conseiller général ) , the far-right national front won 11 % of the votes cast , but secured a mere 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength , and its actual representation , has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago .
i believe that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make , as many governments have grasped since the start . the united states has been the global fund ’s largest supporter , but many others have done its part . for example , australia has provided $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled nearly 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 people receiving tb treatment , seven million people to be cured of malaria , and 14 million bed nets to deliver to families in need . with technical support like that , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system to be fully financed with domestic resources by 2019 . the global fund has brightened futures for hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia , a heroic achievement that should make donor countries ’ citizens proud .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers – can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundation about effective development spending . and these lessons are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus solely on domestic issues , and let recipient countries deal with problems as best they can ( the opposition to aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . prior to his electoral victory , us president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries that hate us , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday newspaper recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . the united states allocates less than 1 % of the federal budget to aid , but the average american believes that this figure is thirty-one-times higher .
second , iran ’s further isolation will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when the american people are hastening its military disengagement there and seeking to cut a deal with the taliban . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and must rely on iran for its access . as a result , america ’s effort to give the international effect to its new iran sanctions act constitute a double whammy for india . but the first fell prey to a long us occupation , and the second currently faces a us-led oil-export embargo designed to throttle it financially . first , it threatens to sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar – that have steered the arab spring .
a key obstacle to this proposal is the requirement of congressional approval to increase america ’s quota share . this opens the possibility that american voting power could fall temporarily below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require backing the 85 % of imf members ’ votes . in order to secure american support , the board of governors could commit not to consider any draft decision requiring 85 % backing without america ’s consent . that guarantee could be included in the resolution dividing the reform package . it would remain valid as long as america was in a position to increase its quota and recover its voting share .
but , almost six months into the north african upheavals , the number of arrivals to the south island of lampedusa has now reached roughly 30,000 . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . the case for openness , inclusion , and pluralism in european societies has become much harder to make . the problem for italy , as it is for other concerned governments in recent migration flows , is the pressure of right-wing populist parties that no longer need to be on the defensive . italian officials have privately affirmed that current figures are not ungovernable .
the german state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , according to a recent oecd forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state budget will total 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , according to the same oecd forecasts , it will total 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , translating into exactly the same economic stimulus as germany ’s 4.4 % of gdp . while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and makes great structural problems , it also implies that the state reacts extremely counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy , which benefits the entire world . moreover , germany has far more internal stability than the us , because it does not have the problem of heavily indebted households that are now restricted in their borrowing .
that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , as every member declared its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . ossification of the brics into a de facto global institution moving forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ imf leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” a few months earlier , the four were moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the global economic system ’s rules . in the private sector , the bric index funds proliferated , though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term – the “ next 11 , ” or n-11 , respectively – into the debate . but catchy ideas die hard , and russia has moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into an irreversible reality .
reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his ability to dole out movie-star cowboy cruelty , even though luck has also played a role . after all , the cold war ’s victory aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose effort to reform the soviet union hastened its collapse . with his well-rehearsed sunny disposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . his strategic defense initiative , intended to end a strategy of nuclear-deterrence , known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was in fact nicknamed “ star wars . ” advocating supply-side economics to the white working class convinced the millions that “ less government , ” which meant cutting federal programs , including education , would bring “ morning in america . ”
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang could have taken place in russia . instead of hearing about a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , one might read about the hundreds killed in the streets of almaty , with columnists making comparisons with the bloody crushing of ukrainian independence demonstrations in lebanon this year . experts would remind us that kazakhstan had never been a country , and that ukraine claims to independence are historically dubious . as with china today , some feeble international condemnation would have occurred , with some speculation about potential linkages between kazakh militants and exile groups . substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you got the picture .
renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans to create new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . so why , then , did the imf flip ? the answer is obvious : china mounted a full-court press to change minds . and chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear how unhappy they would be with a negative decision . in august , the exchange-rate regime was loosened slightly .
but foreign import and export subsidies are not america 's trade deficit . the real reason is that americans spend more than they produce . the overall trade deficit is the result of american households and firms ' saving and investment decisions . foreign governments ' policies influence only how that deficit is divided among america 's trading partners . the reason americans save and investment decisions drive the overall trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more of total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
but the truth is that its design has been fundamentally flawed . judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no impact study has been undertaken . many modi supporters argue that the demonetization policy ’s troubles are the result of inept implementation . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment he has created , modi has been discussing going even further , moving india toward an entirely “ cashless society . ” there has been no “ policy skeleton , ” ” ” no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence that alternative policy options are considered .
washington , dc – terrorism on a scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists – orchestrating the attacks on a museum , and a beach resort . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , gunmen belonging to the al qaeda affiliate stormed radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 people . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – famous for its abduction of 276 school girls in 2014 – inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and assaults on civilians . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab carried out two major assaults , nairobi ’s westminster gate shopping mall in 2013 , and garissa university in 2015 , as well as many smaller acts of terror .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes that they have produced . indeed , with the ratio of royals to commoners now at one in 1,000 ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of steering princely privileges , salaries , and job demand has never been more intense . royal perks cover lifetime sinecures and the domination of the civil service that enable princes to award contracts and receive commissions on the top of their salaries . as the older generation dies off , a new generation has fallen to the fight in front of customers . so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is questioned , and sectarian tensions are rising .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to pay our debts ? ” that was in 1986 , before public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burdens . over the last year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory devastated harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , health , and clean water provision . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia .
there is a strong likelihood that weaker american growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of liquidity support . the consequences – the sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all of the risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty . brazil and other countries that complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars ” have now gotten suddenly what they want : a probable end to the fed ’s qe . whether a correction in risky assets is temporary , or an incipient bear market start , will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will effectively exit from qe as fast as it signaled .
berkeley – since the end of 2014 , the us has been advocating a model of american governance based on america ’s tenth amendment to the american constitution , which states that “ the powers not delegated to the united states by the constitution , nor prohibited by the states , are reserved to the states respectively , or to the people . ” increasingly , california has been exercising these constitutional rights , if at all . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
i moderated a session on the “ new context in east asia , ” ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the exception of the japanese participant , all of them experienced firsthand the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . i could not resist the temptation to draw asia into the european debate . yet i took away a different conclusion from davos , switzerland . europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction .
the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( such as satellites reading detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is clear : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that will damage the planet ’s food supply and the quality of life . great scientific minds have learned over many decades to “ read ” ” history of the earth ’s history to understand how the climate system works .
some advocates of integration see a united europe as a powerful partner . others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival center of power , however unrealistic that appears to be . no one should be surprised , on the other hand , that americans chafe at constraints on their ability to take on america ’s military hegemony . some commentators have begun to point to the divergent views of the american and european views on the role of international law , as against the use of force , on disputes . because europe is militarily irrelevant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy rather than military might , to resolve disputes .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august has tested a european security system , and the system has failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe must revisit its current security arrangements , analyze what has happened , and take this analysis into account in reforming those arrangements . even before the georgian crisis , russia has already seen a need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and function . the european union believes that the russian initiative is well grounded , and has shown interest in launching such a project . we have suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security guarantees to ensure equal security across europe .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be met with violence ? that question has been elevated by the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a rally to protest the planned removal from a public park of the statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war . a woman , heather heyer , was killed , and 19 people injured when james fields , a white nationalist , propelled his car at a high speed into a crowd of counter-protesters . a counter-protest was organized and street fighting broke out .
chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of zeguo ’s citizens for an assembly using keypad polling devices and handheld computers to decide how the city should spend a $ 6 million publicly works budget . the zeguo exercise was considered immensely successful , and replicated elsewhere in china . china ’s modest experiments with local elections have been supplemented by exercises in the name of “ deliberative democracy . ” these are taking the shape of high-tech city hall meetings . and wen has indicated that village elections could be scaled up to the next supreme level of government – township administrations – over the next few years .
european regulators have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with a track record of illicit fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped support “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fisheries laws . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated technologies for seafood traceability – data and intelligence gathering that helps pinpoint precisely where seafood is coming from and when and by whom it has been caught . such efforts – for example , the atlantic bluefin tuna catch ’s electronic documentation scheme – represent one of the most effective tools to eliminate illicit fishing . the eu , japan , and the us would be even more effective if they aligned their policies to prevent criminals from accessing their markets , and have allowed legitimate operators to benefit from “ supercharged ” levels of access . eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life , and secure food and livelihoods for billions of people .
but the urban poor , faced with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood diseases , injuries , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they are also likely to be hardest hit by natural disasters , such as the floods and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense poverty concentrations help to create the fragile environments that spawn civil disorder , resulting in death and injury . but a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market cities can improve and sustain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , embracing successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from opportunities for innovation created by human physical concentration and economic activity .
this followed the june 2001 courts ’ decision to set a date for trial , making it possible at last to present the evidence against these individuals . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring high military officials to trial . regrettably , the trial has been delayed indefinitely because the defendants ’ lawyers appealed the case . our successes on myrna mack are notable , but achieving them has proven difficult : police investigator was assassinated ; judges have been threatened ; and witnesses have fled into exile . i have been harassed and campaigns to discredit me organized .
proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : faced with a climate emergency that demands radical and urgent action . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 , and reinforced the point last month with its un climate change report . some major economies – including canada , ireland , the united kingdom – as well as regions and towns have now officially recognized the scale of the crisis . the question is whether this will translate into a commitment to action . that certainly did n’t happen at the last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland .
with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and with italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors , the conclusion is quite simple : partly by default and partly because of its young president ’s sheer energy and imagination , this is france ’s moment . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is perfectly in tune with france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gaullist tradition . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s power with europe ’s closest historical and cultural relationship with russia , is at the end of the political cycle . it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , but she no longer has the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world , or to rally the europeans themselves . charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct was charles de gaulle .
john maynard keynes , writing the rules along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as a temporary expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . they understood that a democratic country would need the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . so they contemplated only a “ thinly veiled ” globalization , with capital flows restricted largely to long-term lending and borrowing . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s , owing to inability or unwillingness , it is not entirely clear which – of leading governments to manage the rising tide of capital inflows . the third path identified by the trilemma is to do away with national sovereignty altogether .
moreover , because states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks , and the growing importance of internet entanglement to their economic wellbeing , cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare may change . over time , however , improved attribution in forensics may enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning can increase the role of prevention and denial . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to sustain . because technological innovation there is faster than in the nuclear realm , cyberwarfare is characterized by a heightened reciprocal fear of surprise . but if that makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to validate , limits on certain types of civilian targets ( rather than guns ) may still be set to be set on the road to curb conflict .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto the deal proposed by united nations special envoy , former finnish president martii ahtisaari . even then , the us agreed to another four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone is left unturned in the quest for a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgia , by contrast , russia has moved from support for territorial integrity to disruption of the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do so . the conflict in georgia has been followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence . russia must now ask itself about the relationship between short term military victories and long-term economic prosperity .
the fracturing of the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world . more broadly , such a strategy could also start to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and a loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . the democracies that built that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decisions demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too much on the us for its security and prosperity .
knowledge-based organizations are forming a broad array of alliances with the media , and are playing an important role in influencing public opinion in the same way as diplomacy . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to use the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . knowledge-based organizations are forming a broad range of alliances with the media , and playing an important role in influencing public opinion in the same way as diplomacy . at the environmental level , new institutions emerge that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly the use of programs that certify sustainable resource use , as in forest and fisheries . many international negotiations on issues such as bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit from such alliances .
to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union , and the social democratic party ( spd ) – has emerged . but it has taken more than five months for the parties to agree , and the largest opposition party is now the far-right alternative for germany . even germany , to some extent , has fallen victim to populist forces . to some extent , even germany has fallen victim to populist forces . to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union , and the social democratic party ( spd ) – has emerged .
likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers of political and electoral reform . most important , the government appears to be backtracking on a commitment to allow for a binding referendum on opening the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . reelection is permitted only for candidates nominated by the same party for which they originally ran , and the enabling legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remains elusive . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue , and no one will invest close to mexican oil or gas if the recently enacted constitutional amendment to pemex can be overturned in 2015 , because opposition claims will happen . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea .
perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that the central banks that relied on it did not pay enough attention to asset-price bubbles . that the boom-and-bust cycle could occur without inflation should not have come as a surprise . regardless of how it took , it began to receive some heavy blows ( analogous to the crises hitting exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . central bankers told themselves that they were giving asset markets all the attention that they earned , by specifying that housing and equity prices could account for the extent to which they implied information regarding goods inflation . but this breakout clause proved inadequate : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy was too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by an upsurge in inflation .
but even for full-time employees , firms can opt for a relatively small fine , rather than offering insurance . that fine amounts to $ 2,000 per worker , far below the current average premium of $ 16,000 for employer-provided family policies . employers can evade the mandate by reducing the employee ’s workweek to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) . rather than incur the policy premium ’s approval premium , a smart employer can pay the fine for not providing insurance and raising employees ’ pay by enough to make more spendable cash after purchasing an subsidized insurance policy . not providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm , provided its employees have the incomes that entitle them to government subsidies ( which are now available to anyone whose income is below four times the level of poverty ) .
the two cabinet ministers who have resigned the affair , robin cook and clare short , want their own revenge , and thus continue to attack blair for his `` lies . '' so far , blair has proven his resilience in this charge . or is it more a question of a prime minister losing the trust of his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ? the two cabinet ministers who have resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare short , want their own revenge , and thus continue to attack blair for his `` lies . '' so far , blair has proven his resilience in this charge .
it adamantly opposed a few important and promising new human-rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and a new anti-torture mechanism . on the anti-torture protocol , the american effort sought to derail the creation of a universal system of visits to places of detention under an optional protocol to the convention against torture . yet , without us support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed in late july by the un ’s economic and social council . here america found itself allied with some odd bedfellows , which normally rebukes as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . increasingly obsessing about the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america has contributed to the universal erosion of the united nations human-rights monitoring system over the last few years .
just as britain once led europe in fighting fascism , supporting its democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be within europe ’s headlines . it must lead in mobilizing europe to make the global economy work for people , protecting them from injustice , and inequity . nor will it be enough to recall the historic benefits of engagement and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever acquired european sole mastery . what needs to be said is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as a leader in europe . britain , which has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility , should be ready once again to lead a progressive movement , spearheading the fight against climate change , resist protectionism , and spur sustainable growth .
the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing business , from airlines to foods suppliers . yet the expectation of reasonable consumer protection is built into our economies . if a company sells you a car that , say , is not adequately tested , resulting in injury , the company pays a price . a restaurant can not avoid responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware . ” when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not just passive consumers , given that a company traffics in their data .
the implicit model is that of a “ guest worker ” who comes and go ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay in their country of destination , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . so what is to be done ? the asylum system is totally unprepared to deal with a new generation of refugees , who are ineligible under the existing framework , because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution , but from their states ’ disintegration . they can be provided with “ humanitarian protection ” or given “ discretionary leave ” to remain ” for short periods ; but then they can be deported as illegal immigrants . temporary residency status , in europe or outside of europe , would be reasonable if a quick return to normalcy in refugee countries of origin were a realistic prospect .
as a result , few people noted how genuinely , powerfully transformational her agenda , how well she thought it out , and how audaciously she sought to manage it . in other words , mrs. obama manages to establish himself unprecedentedly , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” in her brief lifetime , she was often lauded for the sake of qualities ( her beauty and style ) that were secondary to her life ’s work , and derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality and chaotic personal life ) , which are equally beside the point . princess di ’s legacy in generating the iconography that has opened the way to tremendous social change is grossly underappreciated . she has carefully studied not only jackie kennedy , a comparison obvious from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and page-boy haircut , but also the triumphs and failures of which other glamorous but understealth radical , princess diana .
instead , both are preoccupied with another round of stimulus , which will involve even more political and policy risks . other risks are already providing the headaches of central bankers . the protracted brexit process is hampering the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-run impact of governments ’ global growth on trade tariffs complicates the task for both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies that currently are mooted could , if not well designed , increase the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thus further complicate the task of central bankers . the notion of the “ people ’s qe ” – that is , the more direct channeling of central-bank financing to populist rule , gaining more attention from both sides of the political spectrum .
clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against government parties . he himself presided over many violations , a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 . he resigned only after winning elections to parliament . indeed , many opposition groups engaged in dirty tricks . nevertheless , the elections represented significant progress .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been truly impressive .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . asean continues to face major challenges . over the short term , it seems to be moving like a crab , with two steps forward , one step backward , and one step sideways . yet asean ’s longer-term progress is undeniable . its combined gdp has grown from $ 95 trillion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 .
under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists have based their research not on any physical structure underlying thought and behavior , but on the assumption of rationality . people ’s goals are exposed only by observing their economic activities . as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis for it in brazil . much of modern economic and financial theory is based on the assumption that people are rational , and thus that they systematically maximize their own happiness , or , as economists call it , their “ utility . ” when samuelson took on the subject in his 1947 book , glimcher did not look to the brain , but relied instead on “ revealed preference . ”
central-bank balance sheets have been expanded , with policy rates reaching their “ near zero ” ” lower bounds . there is plenty of cheap water , it seems , but a horse that refuses to drink . with no signs of low inflation and growth still tepid and fragile , many anticipate chronic sluggish growth , with some even fearing another global recession . but policymakers have one more alternative : a shift to a “ purer ” fiscal policy in which they directly finance government spending by printing money – the so-called “ helicopter drops . ” the new money would circumvent the financial and corporate sectors , and go straight to the thirstiest horses : the middle – and lower-income consumers .
the case went to local courts , where a judge ruled it as an “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and gave the driver a two-year suspended sentence . it quickly became the “ rich versus the poor ” story , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he went easy on her because her husband was related to senior provincial officials . alarmed by the public reaction , harbin magistrate instructed the case reopened , only to have the suspended sentence confirmed when the case closed this march . over the next few months , newspapers and television networks ran with the story as snowballed into a national obsession .
most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at mid – to upper twenties . but these countries ’ rising middle classes have begun to move their political systems in another direction – a testament to the power they now enjoy . that power has increased for several reasons , most notably demographics . with more than half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , political development has been able to move ahead , despite entrenched elites ’ recalcitrance . repeated military interventions in large muslim nations – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – have impeded orderly political development .
the goal is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb legislatures and ministers ’ ability to increase spending relentlessly . the rules need to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt , and require transparency , so that the public knows what is happening . third on the panel ’s list is increased investment in building and maintaining infrastructure . while latin america ’s economies are doing well now through reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . if matched by a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility , countries could boost their economic growth substantially .
this has resulted in many disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable impact at scale . a new report from the pathways for the prosperity commission on technology and inclusive development , based at the university of oxford ’s blavatnik school of government , shows how countries can address this problem . second , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success , avoiding the allure of recent glossy innovations . all too often , developing countries have seized on new technologies – “ distributing tablets to schoolchildren ! ” – without offering enough thought about how they will be used in specific national contexts . the report urges them to establish a foundation of “ digital building blocks ” ” – including basic infrastructure and skills – to harness positive disruptions to education and health services .
this is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s ’s economy could not continue to hobble 10 % more each year . but , overall , there is a tough line to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . so there must be something else holding growth back . and , partly , that is because growth is not unconditionally desirable : citizens may be better off with slightly fewer of it , and more clean air . but many countries are still poor enough to be endowed with strong growth potential , and many others , though the rich , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis .
in april 2009 , and again in april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped out in the streets of bangkok to demand new elections , but were dispersed by the army , with 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , red shirts have grown in number and shown monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , after two years , the pad yellow shirts has also reverted to the streets to show their disillusion with abhisit . pad ringleaders now denounce all politicians as corrupt , and extol the virtue of the monarchy . using the guns of an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( a result of the periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades ahead . gartner , a research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , while pwc predicts that ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . in any technological transition , those driving change can not lose sight of the human element ; there are some things , even the smartest machines , never do . some estimates indicate that companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and corporate benefits will go far beyond savings , as automation will spur innovation , improve forecasting , optimize operations , and lead to better customer service .
because they can not be good at everything , they must concentrate on what they are best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . they should make a few things very well , and exchange them for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting the gains from trade . but , while some ideas are intuitive or obvious , they can also be both wrong and dangerous . as is often the case , it is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries actually do specialize , and that therefore should specialize , is one of those very wrong and dangerous ideas .
europe would be infinitely better off if germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off just as well . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until the next election . the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . the situation deteriorates , and , over the longer run , is bound to become unsustainable . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro .
after five years of international sanctions imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . but the bilateral relationship has lately deepened considerably , exemplified by last week ’s china-bashing forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements that cover areas ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders ’ gush that their two countries are now on better terms than ever before . for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly enticing . but , before putin places xi ’s too much faith , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet dissident song , “ the people are brothers ; i will hug the chinese , which mocked well-fated early attempts at a russo-chinese union .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council expires on 30 november , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . after the parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its april 2020 presidential election , and opposition voters already view tusk as the only viable candidate .
so you can set a high price in order to compensate for inconvenience and make money on the side . you do n’t particularly want to lend to them on a daily basis , but if someone is willing to pay , say , $ 200 to rent them for a dinner party , the trouble could be worth it . and if you want to pay , rezz.it helps you collect without feeling like a cheapskate . or you may have a set of under-used dining chairs . and you can post different prices for different times : $ 20,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 any other time .
following high-level negotiations among chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer this month , outstanding issues should be agreed in beijing in early november . fifth , both sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in santiago as the last chance for signing the deal . i am one of the few commentators arguing for every year that , despite the political fireworks , trump , and xi ’s underlying interests make the deal more likely than not . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump may throw a wrench into this process .
european institutions , like germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” while france favors the concept of “ european sovereignty . ” but the two concepts are often used interchangeably and rarely spelled out precisely . in an effort to make clear issues , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of a “ european strategic autonomy . ” we understand strategic autonomy as our ability to set one ’s own priorities and make one ’s own choices on foreign policy and security issues , alongside institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in cooperation with third parties , or alone , when needed . we also analyzed the likely obstacles , difficulty , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to pursue this goal .
in fact , eradication of poppy crops not only damages local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals ; they are also failing : opium production last year was at an all-time high . in september , the united nations office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation soared by a record-high 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it destroys a single crop that grows in the south ’s stark climate – thereby serving as a leading source of revenue to millions of people . thus , a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages the most communities that are afflicted by most – to achieve the support of a deeply impoverished rural population . as a way to address this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run scientific pilot projects to research the afghanistan opium licensing system , a core component of the process of economic reconstruction .
ninety-five percent of muslims , including most of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace , and put an end to the long humiliation of islam that only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make possible . but the bush administration scares the us , too . the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that the clash of civilizations predicted a decade ago , and that must be avoided . five percent of them have declared war on our civilization , and are ready to engage in murder in order to put an end to western domination . the muslim faith counts one billion men and women worldwide among their followers .
likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s activities as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debt . but blindly sticking to principle would have been a high-risk option for the ecb . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what has been called “ redenomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers , without their parliaments ’ approval , to a potential obligation to bail out – well , whom , precisely ? indeed , it seems that the typical northern european taxpayer supports a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european debtors .
such partnerships could lead trump to strike a deal with iran , which is more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria . this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , again playing into the hands of isis recruiters . trump has also expressed his interest in cooperating with russia to take down isis , seemingly oblivious to the reality that russia ’s involvement in syria is focused on propping up assad ’s regime . iran is now permitting russian long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-arduous effort to reach out with russian president vladimir putin on ending the civil war . by comparing the fight against isis to the struggle against the soviet union , trump has elevates the terrorist organization to great-power status .
indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans aspire to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( particularly in health care and education ) , but also that they are ready to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below 2008 levels . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said they would favor changes to the status quo , even if it demanded some sacrifices . and the status quo is in urgent need of change . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for the progress it has made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and the education and health statistics are impressive . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but this is especially the case for a country that has suffered an intensive thirty years ’ civil war . underlying wars like the fight with the tamil tigers are typically , social and economic grievances such as real or perceived discrimination , and the government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately . government will need to set priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach .
western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in the great military struggle . but any condemnation by pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as support for hitler ’s wartime effort . very few people in the vatican – indeed , in europe at large – had any real knowledge in those days of the vast industrial might of the united states . and condemnation of nazism could have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . the pope believed that he could either condemn or condemn both totalitarian powers .
conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-door room appear anywhere , the resulting losses extend across the wide web . networked , its effects , and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . data traveling instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries . networked , its effects , and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . i believe that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles that petroleum and the internal combustion engine played in the twentieth century .
meanwhile , serious trade reform did not begin until 1991-93 . governments in both countries focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . because both india and china did increase trade substantially , both are regarded as globalizers by the world bank 's criterion . but as their experience reveals -- together with many others ' experiences , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization hardly seems a factor in fostering higher growth and expanded trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catching on to this simple reality .
i felt a prodigious , restless energy that i suspected that he could not turn off if he wanted to . but it was in longhand , i said , in longhand . he suggested that i produce a typed copy . i felt that the request was a test – one that i was ready to take , as i carried out maps with me in forward air-control planes . he seemed deeply engaged , but made no comment , asking me only if i had anything in writing .
in egypt , sudan , and ethiopia , for example , local extension services deliver real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . in west africa , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and precision of sms weather alerts to remote farmers . in mongolia , rural herders are receiving information about disease outbreaks to help them sustain the health of their livestock . currently , these kinds of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is slowly changing , especially as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , and collecting and sharing agricultural information becomes increasingly accessible .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape yet another clarion call to roll back the retreat of globalization . faltering trade , it is assumed , must be an adverse trend that needs to be addressed . but the assumption is simplistic , at best . to be sure , there have been efforts to grasp the current slowdown . the problem lies in a lack of understanding of what drove trade growth in the last few decades .
finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . just as china defied the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 – a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it must stay the course today . that is all the more important in a disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as a currency anchor may take even greater significance than it did in the late 1990s . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluations became the norm for major global exporters of the world ’s major exporters – first american , then japan , and now europe .
and even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would begin from a moment of relatively high deficits and debt . prolonging the current expansion will require , first and foremost , great care . america needs a well-targeted approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers and leading economists also need to be more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers should be put in place . policymakers , especially in congress , need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market accidents , while doing more to support growth .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ surveillance , ” ” ” ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on each country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these periodic checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and sustain economic stability . but the globalized economy ’s increasingly complex policy challenges demand a fresh view of this process . this is one of the most important reforms to the fund ’s work in the thirty years since the surveillance process was conceived . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make it more concentrated and effective .
four measures are needed to achieve this . first , a debt conference is needed , with southern european governments ’ creditors and banks forging a portion of the debt . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial help , which would not be necessary for long , because devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness . lenders relinquishing part of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , which has now largely replaced private lenders . second , eurozone members , whose path to restoring competitiveness through prices and wages is far too long and grueling , and whose societies risk being rent asunder by the necessary imposition of austerity , must temporarily exit the monetary union .
finally , the eu should insist that ukraine halt all politically motivated criminal cases and release those incarcerated for political crimes . steps in this direction would greatly improve ukraine ’s relations with the eu and the us . this is important , because ukraine has only partly fulfilled the imf agreements it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . these three steps would not resolve all of ukraine ’s relations with the eu . selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputation .
arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia are in america ’s national interest , trump , shortly after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . putin has just reciprocated with trump ’s invitation . instead , trump ’s actions seem to look just as more kowtowing , raising the hackles of other american leaders . for many members of america ’s security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – this month , european citizens will head to the polls to choose the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent about 507 million people . the way the election campaign unfolded marks a small but significant step in the emergence of the first transnational political space in europe – indeed , the world – in history . given the european parliament election ’s perceived remoteness , and widespread frustration with the european bureaucracy , the level of participation and movement toward supranational politics is remarkable . nonetheless , participation rates over the past decade are comparable to the average turnout in america ’s congressional elections . to be sure , the european parliament elections have been bringing smaller shares of voters to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 .
indeed , that policy , even its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as if the rbi ’s chief personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at the garden party . but it is just this highly personalized form of politics adopted by saudi royals with defecting al-qaeda members . highly personalized politics form part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s theater of state , which keeps royals firmly in power . nonetheless , the bomb was not enmeshed in metal , and terrorist attacks were the only people killed .
it was said of prime minister levi eshkol that he spoke seven languages , all of them in yiddish accent . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he had to leave government in 1974 in the wake of the yom kippur war . perhaps eban was too urbane , too much of a scholar and gentleman to make it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to the top of greasy . of eban ’s view , it could be said to speak ten languages , all of which are with oxford/cambridge accent .
but whether europe as a whole avoids lost decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance , and depends on whether southern european governments can restore competitiveness rapidly . the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive initially was driven by market price signals – incentives such signals created for entrepreneurs , and how entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms . as a result , southern europe adopted the economic configuration of which its wage , price , and productivity levels made sense only so long as it spent € 13 for every € 12 it earned , with northern european financing the missing euro . northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the south eager to spend , and ample pre-2007 spending made employers there willing to raise wages rapidly . northern europe , meanwhile , adopted wage and productivity levels that made sense only as long as it spent less than one europe on every european that it earned .
last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression . of course , while trump does n’t spare his allies , his primary goal remains china . after all , the us-china competition extends far beyond trade . a global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs at a time when risks are already being beset , including possible no-deal brexit and a populist rally in may ’s european parliament election . although the us maintains its military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan support in the us for a more confrontational approach .
a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies , such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the heavily contingent nature of success . few policies work off the shelf and reliably across diverse settings . competitions among states and localities to attract big employers with tax and other subsidies work especially poorly . recent high-profile deals for foxconn and amazonian , wisconsin , and new york respectively , have exploded . they can be answered and periodically revised , only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms .
shanghai – china is facing the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing , after decades of spectacular expansion . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them . china has an advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . if china performs a sustained , comprehensive effort to raise productivity , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of a financial crisis , and complete its transition to a consumption-driven , high-powered , and affluent economy .
london – as governments across western europe began bailing out banks and their depositors , eastern europeans watched nervously , uncertain of what a global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm has hit , europe ’s fragile bonds of european solidarity are being put on trial . two countries – hungary and ukraine – have already requested major support packages . a few more could do so over the next month if frozen credit markets do not thaw . if the situation continues until the end of the year that can not be ruled out , many more countries could experience severe banking crises .
but the big question for health professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . this is an important distinction , because quantity is determined by a user , whereas quality is determined by the industry . some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods – especially sugar – are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . sugar , for example , is consistently the ingredient with the highest score on the yale food addiction scale that measures people ’s food cravings . the processed food industry says , “ you need sugar to live .
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative , delivered close to two billion doses of the polio vaccine , to 575 million children in 94 countries . a closely coordinated effort amongst private-sector and public-sector partners to deliver the oral polio vaccine to every child under the age of five was the key to success . globally , international donors and un agencies have worked closely with national governments , quelling the exact needs of massive disease-immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children . in each country , partner institutions including the world health organization , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations jointly and carefully planned every immunization campaign . every detail , from the number of bicycle bicycles and boats needed to deliver the vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , to the refrigerators and cold boxes needed to keep the vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to power them were counted and budgeted .
with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it has become easier for other powers to pursue a strategy of divide-and-conquer . this has long been russia ’s strategy . for example , in 2016 , south and eastern eu member states that rely on chinese investment managed to water down a joint eu declaration on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea . in an increasingly deal-based world , a new g6 might offer the defense of a rules-based system . still , one wonders if the eu is able to launch a united front .
indeed , it is a key issue in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s highly minded but failed struggle to curb it . but the winds of globalization were to blow away the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and both economic efficiency and governance will improve . the harvard political scientist migh kapur suggests why this is not happening at all . corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems , and it is not enough .
florence – europeans who are eager to revive the continent ’s process of unification have lately turned their attention to the founding of the united states . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . in fact , the creation of the american constitution and the birth of the american people offer reasons to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be resolved . many , however , reject america ’s precedent in the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those encountered then . others , accepting that federalist principles might well be suited to tackling europe ’s common market ’s problems , are the despair that the “ european people , ” who could bring about this new political architecture , are missing .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , must keep putin up at night , or would not be torn apart with such unabated brutality . yet , rather than hold a dialogue with the people , putin has shown himself to be in charge , even preening for photo opportunities in his favorite gang of motorcycle gang . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
by 651 , almost all major urban centers in persia were under arab control , adding momentum to the process . the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to the border province of khorasan and arab league , with persians accepting arab names and converting to islam . mass conversion to islam among persians was the first step toward establishing a first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslims . at various times in history , caliphates extended across asia , africa , and parts of europe . efforts by various forces seeking to control or restore the caliphate are a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : as the price of oil that plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , it recovered , and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel , russia would return to the stagnation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . sure enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , though averaging a respectable 4 % , turned out to have fueled the post-crisis recovery and another spike in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-term factors have been depleted , with the brezhnev-like period of economic stagnation . the russian government ’s reluctance to fight corruption and strengthen the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse , yet stable , political equilibrium . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy is capable of running at least 5-6 % annual growth .
left-wing proponents of so-called modern monetary theory argue that larger sustained fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , because there is little risk of runaway inflation . others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , a former chairman of the uk financial services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal facility , ” which would allow the central bank to finance large fiscal deficits in the event of a deep recession . following this logic in the uk , the labor party has proposed “ people ’s qe , ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . despite the differences in terminology , all of these suggestions are variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand in the event of the next slump .
when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often extremely difficult , because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decisions or actions are involved . bidders need to plan for two phases : engineering , procurement and construction ( epc ) , and a longer phase of operation , when toll revenue is collected to recover incurred costs and expected returns . there are plenty of uncertainties on both phases , but especially during the epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project . so , let ’s assume that a toll road project is agreed , a concession contract is ready , and companies are offering on it . most developing countries , i know , have been spending too little money devising good projects .
besides , there is a clear business rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and rating agencies increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” ” ” ” such as oil and gas projects , which will become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction commitments , one might think that the global effort to tackle climate change is losing steam . but , to get and keep all governments on board , a low-carbon transition must be inclusive . many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans than was previously expected , and financial portfolios that rely heavily on such assets will increasingly be at risk of devaluation . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change , or ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have not .
more recently , a group of members of the parliament ( quite a large one – 30 deputies ` ) left the majority post-solidarity party , creating a new " polish family " party with the slogan that the ruling coalition is in " brussels . " defend " family values , whatever that may mean . a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a tendency that struggles for old values like honor and virtue . but here the people engaged in a former " solidarity " movement - for them movements of community rather than individuals , movements for public rather than private freedom - form a new bloc of euro-antagonists . in practice this movement also inspires little more than a fear of change .
an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit the facts recently emerged from the paul woolley center for studies of dysfunctionality in capital markets , at the london school of economics . managers can demand higher and higher returns in the upturn , and more so . that may be part of the story , but competition for talent and for customers seems intense between investment banks and others , yet collectively they have been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of those customers . researchers there argue that in fragile speculative industries ( and in finance , for example , has certainly been in that category ) it is hard for investors to monitor those who manage their money . they can see short-term returns , but they do not understand very well how those returns are generated .
the united states is consistently ranked consistently among the top ten countries for innovation , including by insead ’s global innovation index . but , on the world peace index , it ranks 88th out of 153 countries . conversely , bhutan is among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not even make it onto the indices of innovation . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , respectively , fifth , and sixth on the innovation index , but just 28th and 29th on the peace index . of course , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability are severe enough to cause a complete breakdown of law and order significantly to impede creativity and innovation .
germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger . if the council succeeds weber and his populist supporters , macron denounces it as a success . but merkel still defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – who is not from the epp , but who is in the sense of the liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , who comes from the epp but is not spitzenkandidat . finally , the election provides a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general following kofi annan ’s ten-year tenure . annan has inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world , drawing attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and critical long-term problems like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy access , and access to water . with the recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention from the most critical challenges facing our planet . in addition to the longer-term challenges of poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and elsewhere . recent attempts to leverage trends across these countries through threats and sanctions , and sometimes war , have failed .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all in trade policy during the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression . many complain that something similar , if less spectacular in scope , is taking place today . an outfit entitled global trade alert ( gta ) has been at the forefront , raising alarm bells over what it calls “ the protectionist juggernaut . ” the gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 , with china as the most common goal . this number has been widely quoted in the financial press , and it is now being made public .
given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the costs of social benefits for migrants ? host countries could assume responsibility for administering benefits like unemployment insurance , sick pay , and pensions . and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits that do not to jobs , such as child allowances staying at home and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrive . and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits that do not , such as child allowances staying at home and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrive . given this , such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give british ground to rethink their exit decisions with their heads held high .
it has become common knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that , in the absence of solidarity-based solutions to existing debt and a partial mutualization of new debt , the euro can not be saved . those who oppose this , because they fear common accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and a loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s re-nationalization – and thus its exit from the world stage . what needs to be done has long been clear , but it is not what needs to be done . no alternative – and certainly not the statusquo – will work . the price of the monetary union ’s survival , and thus that of the european project , is more community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union .
the eu is not deprived of instruments – the so-called “ structural funds ” that finance investment in poorer regions – but does not have a strategy to exploit them . more bugs will have to be fixed , including new bugs found in the fixes . so the outcome of months of discussion might be better characterized as “ emu ” 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . for investors , the reform process may seem impossibly long and hesitant . but , by standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has been exceptionally fast .
its schools are financed by local communities and work within the framework of a national curriculum designed by the parliament and government . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as a homogeneous mass where all students can be educated according to the same pedagogical approach . but schools need to be able to meet individual children ’s needs and abilities in ways that learn a stimulating adventure . other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying . while educational opportunities and structures have been gradually diversified , the major shortcoming of most european education systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers if they want to remain in their occupations must adhere to severely compartmentalized pedagogy .
from this perspective , they are in and out of a prison system , and have little chance of ever getting a legal job that enables them to escape poverty . what is crazy about this is that the u.s. has missed its obvious point – and missed it for 40 years . to break the cycle of poverty , a country needs investment in its children 's future , not in the incarceration of 2.3 million people per year , many for non-violent crimes that are symptoms of poverty . their children grow up without a parent at home – and without hope and support . drug users often become drug users themselves ; they , too , frequently end up in jail or suffer violence or early death .
in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not become a major problem , owing to a fairly open immigration policy that enabled the country to take advantage of the talent that colombia , among other countries , has been unable to sustain . the non-residential construction boom that this created has helped not only to absorb the labor force left behind rural areas , but also to achieve a remarkable decrease in inequality . colombia ’s policymakers have hoped that , if enacted best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody will come . and , if they do not , they can still bask in the international accolades that they receive from foreign actors . the comparison between the two approaches is clear .
at the global level , countries that spent too little – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend , consuming , and importing less . thus , reviving global aggregate demand will be weak , pushing global growth much lower . at best , we face a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in advanced economies , as household deleveraging , financial institutions , and governments begins to feed through to consumption and investment . but over-saving countries , china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries . moreover , there is now massive public-sector re-leveraging in the advanced economies , with massive budget deficits and public-debt accumulation fueled by automatic stabilizers , counter-cyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the enormous costs of financial-market socializing ’s losses .
the current crisis , wall street ’s fall , is to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was with communism . the global dimension of this crisis has surprisingly also had a positive side . until now , a major part of the problem was countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate . previous demands for more stringent regulation came to nothing , owing to the opposition of the financial sector . the international community is now charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of similar disaster in the future .
in contrast to the french tradition ’s militant liberalism , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in an ongoing culture war from exploiting the state ’s coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls . in advocating the disestablishment of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the importance of their ongoing contest over life ’s meaning . it is because of the infinite importance of this great debate that the state should strive to be neutral . after all , if a state takes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrating the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens . just as possible , the liberal state should be neutral on such issues , leaving it to each citizen to determine whether it should give its financial support to the church of rome or the one at its bayreuth .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world is facing yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . a former represented by the united states has broken down , and the latter represented by china is on the rise . following the path of least resistance will lead to the gradual disintegration of the international financial system . a new sounder multilateral system must be invented . while international cooperation on regulatory reform is difficult to achieve on piecemeal grounds , it can be attainable in the grand bargain that re-lay the entire financial order .
today , however , the benefits derived from his achievements are at risk , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is often in the spotlight , typically to popular acclaim . over the years , he has won important victories that limit state aid to entrepreneurship , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . within a period of just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private parties can appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions rejecting the proposed corporate mergers . with a case of competition against the software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , a commissioner monti will need to rediscover his footing quickly .
drought and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and ample resources , can be averted . but time and time again , humanitarian aid in africa has come short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and ethiopia during the 1980s . then , as now , food insecurity has been predicted long before the first starvation pangs has been felt . so many proud and dignified people have been stripped of their livelihoods and forced to rely on one tiny food daily or nothing at all . making matters worse , these tragedies have been avoidable ; we have known that these crises are coming .
the bottom board includes transnational relations that cross borders outside governments ’ control – everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this bottom board , the degree of close civilian cooperation that affects a country ’s attractiveness or soft power is also important . on this board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . here the u.s. needs europeans ’ help , and it makes little sense to call this world a uni-polar either . no government can control outcomes without the cooperation of others .
translation : a orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than would otherwise be the case . and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than they would otherwise be . as long as we allow cross-border banks at or close to their current scale , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate failure . making matters worse , they have both the motive and the opportunity to grow even larger .
fortunately , the world will not have to wait for moral suasion to carry the day . already , fossil-fuel companies and governments are facing intensifying legal pressure . the dutch group urgenda , and almost 900 co-plaintiffs have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt tougher climate policies . and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil fuels , they would contribute to the eventual phase-out of a sector with no place in a climate-safe world . typhoon survivors in the philippines delivered a complaint to the earth human rights commission , calling for the investigation by big fossil-fuel companies that are responsible for causing climate change .
several steps are needed to support a massive increase in internet usage in these other locations : * liberalization of telecoms , including the entry of new private service providers , is critical to reducing costs and spreading benefits . a few years ago , for example , chip-maker national semiconductor management managed a complicated delivery system linking its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its global customer network . it decided to out-source that operation to federal express , which uses a sophisticated on-line system to manage global deliveries and sales . as a result , national semiconductor see its delivery cycle to customers cut from four weeks to one week , with distribution costs cut from 2.9 % of retail sales to 1.2 % of retail sales .
but the debate about it is riddled with confusions . it is often argued that fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keep interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes even by the same people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people fear a future “ inflation tax . ” as a result , the option of so-called “ helicopter money ” is increasingly being discussed . if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly rise , producing some of the mix of higher inflation and higher real output .
geneva – when lehman brothers declared bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became unclear who owed what to whom , unable to repay their debts , to go down next . the result was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicked , and companies went under , not just in the united states but around the world . in hindsight , the complacency of the run-up to the crisis was clearly unconscionable . and yet , in its aftermath , little has changed . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s translated into another great depression .
should the spd , which votes on the coalition agreement in early december , block the formation of the new government ( an unlikely development but not entirely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit . for some , that is a cause for ambivalence . coalition partners disagree about how urgent it is to sort out this issue . but they have agreed that in a year , a commission will offer distinct options and models to protect the german parliament ’s rights , while providing assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country will be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . aside from a few minor particulars , consensus prevails .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the last two decades . indeed , every new gm crop variety must meet rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . badly needed biosafety legislation in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already been delayed . much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists , who object to technologies on “ moral grounds . ” the world health organization has also confirmed that “ no effects on human health have been shown as a result of consuming such foods .
that solution will be incomplete , but because not all derivatives traders are regulated financial institutions , and because many creditors would find ways to circumvent the contract and requirement . unless coverage is complete , one can expect the regulated to complain that they have been placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators ’ call to the isda for voluntary action will not amount to much if it is just a request to the derivatives industry to act against its own financial interests . regulators may well need to turn to bankruptcy laws to correct the problem . perhaps regulators will find that they must require that the regulated have the desired provisions of the contract .
the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who used “ words , signs , or visible representation ” to excite disaffection toward the government ” can be charged with sedition , and potentially condemned , to life imprisonment . in other words , no free speech for indians came to terms with free speech . but even that was inadequate for britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , to make it even harsher than sedition rules in england . sedition has thus been explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi has been among its prominent victims , albeit far from his last . in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengal , the “ sedition law ” that is adequate to a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and faith may be inadequate , or , in some respects , unsuited , for a country under foreign rule .
seoul – china – already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer , and international-reserve-asset holder , it is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured according to purchasing power parity ) this year . now , it is using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . after decades of actively participating in international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to create a new world order . indeed , the country ’s days of following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone . last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed the memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank .
new free-trade agreements are giving european economies access to major markets around the world . achieving the global climate agreement promises not only to preserve the environment , but also to cement europe ’s ’s role as a leader in sustainability . and eu enlargement has enhanced europe ’s security substantially . progress toward the single market has helped to boost competitiveness . these are , by all reasonable standards , remarkable uk-led achievements .
a special report on semiconductors , essential to the us national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s obama ’s council of science and technology advisors ( pcast ) provides some answers . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on the flow of semiconductor ip to china and on the acquisition of semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , proposed that america work with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and strengthen export controls and inward investment restrictions . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits on china ’s behavior . bipartisan legislation to expand the us foreign investment committee ’s jurisdiction ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions by domestic companies through foreign entities ) to a broader array of investments , including chinese venture capital and private-equity investments in us start-ups , is consistent with this recommendation .
our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage by our ongoing addiction to fossil fuels . four decades ago , countries not only endured the opec embargo ’s immediate economic impact ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles , which require little or no fossil-fuel resources , and increase their share of renewables in power supply , could ensure that the substantially hotter and less convenient world of 2050 that the ipcc warns against does not materialize . rocky mountain institute of reinventing fire analysis shows that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies for powering a america economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 , without reliance on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependency to more efficient renewable-energy systems .
on the same day , hamas has launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . luckily , two to miss the goal , and israel has managed to intercept the third . but what international response , if any , would have been initiated had the cache been heavily enriched ? the captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; international inspectors removed all of the sensitive material from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( which is why it was absent when the united states invaded 2003 ) . but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities , and served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of the nuclear reactors in warsaw .
at the same time , not all the indicators are grim . the american economy reflects this dichotomy . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains strong in most major economies . moreover , the september surge in oil prices , which raised fears of another negative growth shock , has since receded . although dollar appreciation has put some downward pressure on non-us economies that depend on exports or foreign capital , it has increased the risk of an open-ended currency war .
in the personal-computing business that moved from bulky apple ii to sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) , steve jobs was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . he inspired broad public enthusiasm for the quality of his products , and his personal charisma . ( others became “ business ” leaders , but only steve became someone known and admired by millions – including the romanian waiter at the british airways where i am sitting now . ) for some reason , it was held at playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) . i first met steve back in 1979 , or at the 1980 ’s at ben rosen ’s personal computer forum .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate , at 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year , is impressive , as was its 3 % average growth in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . since the end of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – the american economy grew by only 2.1 % per year , on average . what accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
in closed-list systems , candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , male , female ( or vice versa ) . in open-list systems , a 50 % quota should be adopted . but if these countries replace their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of women elected should , all other than equal , increase to around 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in roughly 20 % of women elected in systems that currently lack effective quota laws . ) no accuracy of the impact of increased quota percentages in open-list systems that currently have effective quota laws .
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . moreover , trump has tried to steer government deals toward favored firms or away from those he dislikes , for example , amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also holds the washington post . for example , frustrated that the us congress denied him all of the funds that he wanted for his phantasmagorical wall along the mexican border , he simply plucked the money from funding that congress had allocated for the department of defense . likewise , he has flouted the constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments – money or personal benefits from foreign governments that do business , sometimes of extravagant shares , at his various hotels and golf clubs , and has found other ways to monetize the presidency . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has attempted to block the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia .
sometimes debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps stretched over an extended period , causing the debtor country ’s time to regain its ability to pay . few governments refuse to pay at all in any form . when debt is unsustainable , there are a few possible bargaining outcomes . argentina has defaulted on its debt in 2001 . sometimes lenders agree to exchange the old bonds for new ones , which have either lower face value or lower interest payments .
in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china – where a strain of pandemic will most likely originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure are lacking . although ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich in parts of the world where flu pandemics begin , the probability of success approaches zero . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is highly cost-effective . a strategy , however , can be “ cost-effective ” only if it is feasible . responses in turkey – where as many as 50 possible cases have appeared in eastern ukraine – are instructive .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvement in human history and , with it , the emergence of a large and growing middle class . that has made china a key trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies besides marketing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . it helps to finance other countries with trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its recipients hold large budget deficits that are falling national saving below domestic investment ) . it remains the vital assembly center of the global supply chain for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cellular phones , enabling lower prices for the world ’s consumers . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves – much of it in dollars , but also in other major currencies – owing to its large trade surplus in recent decades .
history offers little guidance as to whether warring countries would avoid damaging nuclear sites . for ukraine 's government , the angst is real . with the exception of the 1990 's balkan conflict , wars have neither been fought nor within countries with nuclear reactors . even ukrainians born after 1986 understand what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by combat could look like . in the case of the balkans , serbian military jets overflew slovenia 's krško nuclear facility into a threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists called for attacks to release radioactive contents .
once the door to asia was open , however , russian companies seized the opportunity to enter the downstream markets of india and indonesia , two countries that are critical of the saudis ’ own strategy . china seized full advantage from the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom tariffs on russian energy resources . to that end , it has sustained a price war , backed by a manufacturing boost aimed at squeezing weaker competitors . it has pursued a campaign to recover its former position not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . over the last two years , or so , saudi arabia has starkly understood that it will not easily relinquish its market share – to anyone .
indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . this is the kind of economy that i am hoping that china will develop . participants in such a good economy would range from society ’s grassroots to its most advantaged . this is the kind of economy that i hope that china will develop . history suggests that it would be one of entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities , and exercising their initiative to try new things ) and innovative people ( imagining new things , developing new concepts into commercial products and methods , and marketing to potential ) .
( though perhaps this is not proper automation – the supermarket has just shifted some of the work of shopping onto a customer . ) a wide range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and irreducibly human may be the next casualties of technological change . for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for better jobs . but technological progress is now eating better jobs . as a recent article in the financial times points out in two areas notoriously immune to productivity increases , education , and health care , technology is already reducing demand for skilled labor .
in april , killers gunned down a roma factory worker as he walked to the job . in august , gunmen invaded the home of the impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her to death and injured her 13-year-old daughter . the house was burned to the ground , and the house was burned . in northeastern hungary last november , a roma couple was killed . in february , the roma father and his five-year-old son were killed outside budapest .
a more rational approach would accept twenty-first-century realities . the information revolution has transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . with us workers already competing against robots at home , and against low-wage us workers abroad , disrupting imports will only create more jobs for robots . trump , for his part , should be protecting individual workers , not individual jobs . the processes of twenty-first-century globalization are too abrupt , unpredictable , and uncontrollable to rely on static measures like tariffs .
those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany . but hitler ’s power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s power over iran . iran ’s recent municipal elections were humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . he very probably implies what he says about jews and israel , but is he a latter-day hitler , and is iran ’s equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran very well might .
the second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are considered alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . but this requires a rich reservoir of ideas , not a single , unified approach . the last principle is congruity , ensuring that decision-makers are held accountable for the outcomes of their decisions . this means that as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared responsibility will be a pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflects a political coalition of two major powers : super-rich and evangelical christians . the super-rich have one over-riding objective in joining bush ’s coalition : tax cuts that are overwhelmingly benefiting the richest households . the bush team believed that they would eventually balance tax cuts for the wealthy with reductions in government spending , but that they never explained this to the public . evangelicals were brought along by so-called “ family values , ” ” ” ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activity , including direct payments to religious groups , for whom they provide locally and internationally . as those policies fail , global financial markets respond negatively , adding uncertainty to the global economy , and little relief in sight because america enters a period of prolonged political infighting and stalemate .
some large eu countries are on the brink of recession . to bolster purchasing power and stimulate consumption , tax cuts on low - and medium-income households are essential . public investment in infrastructure ( for example , a massive expansion of the european railroad network ) , together with the need for climate protection and environmental technology , will be needed . japan in the early 1990 ’s waited too long to act , missing the right policy opportunity to enact countermeasures , which is why japan has still not recovered from its long stagnation . of course , eu member states should determine the concrete form that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will total at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and is well positioned to play a pivotal role in renewables . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe . spending by households and companies estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting a 3.5 % annual growth rate .
earlier this month , putin was re-inaugurated – or , rather , crowned – in spectacular fashions , with medvedev once again assuming the role of a pliant prime minister . a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is far taller than putin , who , at any rate , has had only the rank of colonel himself . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov has gone over , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” ” overseeing the environment and transportation . despite his years in office , medvedev still knows more for his fancy ties and costly watches than for his executive ’s actions .
cambridge – government programs to support pensioners are in trouble in every country , owing to increasing life expectancy and a rising pension ratio to taxpayers . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” system will create a crisis when the fund is exhausted . here is how america ’s system works : by law , a payroll tax is dedicated solely to financing retiree benefits . the problem will worsen in the years ahead , as the adverse demographic trend increases the fiscal burden of funding pensions and health care . while the options at that time are different from those facing other governments , policies to avoid america ’s crisis are relevant to other countries that confront population aging .
more recently , he criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets for his failure in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the common sense needed from someone who governs . ” indeed , while the scandals have rattled the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , and investors continue to pour money into the stock market . one reason is that the corruption scandals have provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . newspapers and television commentators have been relentless in reporting scandals , helped to prove to brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is sufficiently stable to withstand open criticism . lula remains popular with brazilians because his populist rhetoric shows real sympathy with the less affluent and with foreign investors , because he has always tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic reality .
true , morales resigned when the military told him , and after agreeing to protesters ’ demands for a new vote . but the existing constitutional provisions were subsequently followed . the constitutional court , which allowed morales to run , deemed legal in presidential succession ; timely elections were promised ; and the military did not take power . the two organization of american states ’ electoral observation missions , which he himself invited , and whose terms he accepted , then refused to certify the outcome . the bolivian military was arrested by no one , and the bolivian military was arrested .
this is the sort of free democratic spirit that operates outside the convention that elections determine the government . it is not always consistent or rational ; it is not always consistent . it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it moves very quickly into precipitating crises . and they resent – to the point of mobilizing in the streets , any hint that a top-down clique is barring .
countries were required to commit only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . this left them free to build their own versions of national capitalism , just as they obeyed a few simple international rules . the current crisis demonstrates how far we have come from that model . financial globalization , in particular , played havoc with the old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism with few safety valves , it provided an explosive mix .
you and i may depend on each other , but if i depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power is increased . at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . for decades , america and saudi arabia have had a balance of asymmetries in which the us depended on them as a swing producer of oil , and depended on the us for ultimate military security . so , even if america did not have other middle eastern interests , such as israel or nuclear non-proliferation , a balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to free the us from military expenditures , which some experts estimate shares to $ 50 billion a year – in order to protect the region ’s oil routes . power arises from asymmetries in interdependence .
indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism on this issue are a major reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions whether “ hungarians and poles want exactly the same things as germans and french . ” at the national level , lack of political will resulted in the craven use of referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ vote on an eu-ukraine association agreement last april , and the brexit referendum nearly three months later . in each case , eu voters said , “ no ” – outcomes that can be blamed , especially in the uk , on national leaders ’ ’ ’ ’ habit of blaming the eu for domestic problems . the lack of historical vision among the current generation of political leadership is undermining the shared sense of purpose needed to compel eu citizens to feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . that model was based politically on creating consensus , and economically on keynesian demand management . in the 1960 ’s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high employment levels and substantial wage growth . today , the equivalent of the collapse has been the “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which a party that styled itself as “ new labour ” embraced a powerful role for markets – particularly for largely deregulated financial markets .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
mayors across europe have , however , responded more moderately , feeling , and exhibited solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . other countries ’ governments , it seems , have been trying to distance themselves from the problem , fearing a contagion that they know is likely to spread . as french cities have burned , other countries in judging france have been very severe . embassies have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; tv news programs have shown hours of footage of burning cars . they know that their cities are also vulnerable to urban violence , in order to have pockets of social inequality , including the marginalized , and to the exclusion of young people .
and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty – and thus avert a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a higher rate than global supply , prices will soar . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity , defined as the amount of commodity consumed to generate a unit of output , falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be greater this year than it was last year . to be sure , the intensity of use has fallen for some commodities , like gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , such as aluminum and coal , it has risen since 2000 , or , as is likely to be the case for copper and oil , declines have slowed markedly or stalled at high levels . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is forecast to grow by no more than 2 % annually in real terms .
a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy . payment arrears on food imports totaled $ 2.4 billion , leading to substantial shortages of staple goods . in the automobile sector , the default exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transportation services due to shortages of spare parts . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of the government ’s default on the $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports .
likewise , while egypt is at the center of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it is also planning to reclaim a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and in the region as a whole . the middle east ’s “ middle east ” “ “ will no longer remain a sleeping giant . ” turkey , of course , is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . after all , turkey is already a functioning democracy ; it is already in the region . will it have to get the bomb ?
state-owned health insurance companies , the state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not only insecure and inefficient ; they are also at odds with the idea of political reform . these state-controlled benefits have little to do with the justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption . the desire to limit or protect some forms of free-market human activity may be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where the free market remains an unknown animal . but in a situation in which many fields of social life -- such as education , health , and social services -- need quick and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its job provides the only plausible avenue for change . if " constitutionalized " , they simply implant the idea that the constitution is a denunciation of aspirations rather than a set of enforceable legal rights .
an indian diplomat in damascus just a few years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as in the united states and the united kingdom offer yet another example . so , too , does the work of india 's fashions designers , now striding around the world ’s runways . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother who takes a bus to dakar every month to watch a bollywood film – she fails to understand hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles , but she can still capture the spirit of films and understand a story , and people like her look at india with stars in their eyes as a result . indian arts , classical music , and france have the same effect . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago tells me that the only publicly displayed portraits as big as then-president hafez al-assad ’s dogged superstar amitabh bachchan .
new delhi – barack obama , the sixth american president to visit india since it gained independence , arrives at a trying time , both for the united states and for india . for india , the issues on the obama agenda are immense and complex , and the options for resolving them are extraordinarily limited . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treadmill as they have ever been . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening an awkward gap in national security and the economy – the focus of his meetings with india ’s government . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between america and china , but they are thorny and lack of resolution making them more intractable .
owing to social media , the resulting discontent now spreads more rapidly than ever before , leading to destructive politics . this can invite geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorates into a lose-lose scenario , like that already apparent in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing . moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have a winner-take-all network effect , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classrooms , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability across other countries . according to the united nations high commission on refugees , more than 65 million refugees were in the world last year , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 .
but such a process is illegal under the 1978 spanish constitution . that constitution marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provides spain ’s rule-of-law framework . and , like it explicitly states , it is “ based on the indissoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with sovereignty belonging to the spanish people . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible . many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in 2014 .
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backward . it is time to adopt a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within the global economy of today and tomorrow . the flawed assumption that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were just temporary has underpinned policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries , while failing to address crucial problems like high unemployment and rising inequality . since the 2008 financial crisis , we have wasted far too much energy trying to return to days of rapid economic expansion . the post-crisis era is over .
obama has confined himself to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries . these were highlighted in an “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released over the signatures of nearly 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . indeed , it is notable that , while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 , at least referred to doha , his address in january 2011 did not . obama ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round is a result of many factors and fallacies . america ’s president is captive to rural labor unions , buying the false narrative that trade with poor countries increases the ranks of america ’s poor by driving down wages .
diversification away from dollar assets is the advice of the day . but this is no easy task , particularly in the short run . if that happens , the chance of a truly american default would be far higher than it is today . these new worries are raising alarm bells in the case of china . some people even foresee a double-dip recession .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits beyond market rates of return . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions , a bold move that could transform capital markets . last year , one out of every $ 6.6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states , a total of $ 6.6 trillion , was allocated toward some form of sustainable investment , particularly for public equities . if this trend continues , with environmental or social advancement enhancing investment ’s value , it reinforces a commitment to sustainability that is already gaining momentum among companies around the world . some 1,260 companies , the management of $ 45 trillion in assets , are signatories of the united nations ’ “ principles for responsible investment , ” which recognize environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and thus the long-term health and stability of companies and markets – as critical to investors .
the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers is bringing their own uniquely worldviews to global affairs . in a sense , this might seem like a good thing . but this multipolar dynamic also generates instability . in international politics , perceptions matter – sometimes more than reality . more varied perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems .
in britain and some european countries , animal welfare has become politically salient , and pressure on parliamentary representatives has mounted . some of the supermarket chains have even ceased to carry eggs from battery hens . the european union has established a scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on farms , and the committee has recommended banning the battery cage alongside some other forms of close confinement of pigs and calves . to its credit , the british egg industry has accepted the situation , and has developed new and less cruel methods of keeping hens . a ban on the eu ’s battery cages was eventually adopted in 1999 , but , to ensure that producers have plenty of time to phase out the facilities they have made , its implementation has been delayed until january 1 , 2012 .
early school-leavers , for example , could be endowed with points for later use in professional training . this may sound utopian ; in a sense , it is . but at a time when each digital service is becoming more personalized , why should social policy remain confined to twentieth-century philosophy and solutions ? finally , the same accounts could serve as public-policy vehicles . more broadly , instead of assisting people only when social risks materialize , public policy could encourage individuals throughout their working lives by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes .
indeed , outspokenness was the hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . it used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was regarded as taboo . but corruption poses the single largest obstacle to growth and development in many countries , especially as it diverts resources from the poor . the world bank has insisted on being perceived as a cancer , and that fighting it is made synonymous with fighting poverty . many government minister , bank officer , and ngo representative have experienced his blunt criticism , as well as his effusive praise .
it is a revisionist power concerning the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is a status quo power with respect to the un system , and steadfastly opposes the enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership . in fact , the modest measures implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have been limited to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations – peace and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of a few countries . china is not on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . the formation of the g20 , for example , has been improvisation intended to defer genuine financial reform .
the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary basis ( for example , ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly harmful in this respect . it can result in gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of equality of opportunity . rising inequality of outcomes need not result in reduced intergenerational mobility . whether it does so depends heavily on whether important instruments that foster equality of opportunity , principally education and health care , are universally accessible .
of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several explicitly target clean technologies . last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever , creating the first truly global crowd-investing marketplace offering equity in funded firms . other increasingly prominent trends , such as collaborative consumption , pay for , and share , and leasing models , could offer similarly powerful impetus to such efforts . if used wisely , such platforms could take up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy . the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into large pools of finance – not to mention contacts and expertise – from small investors .
in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across the border into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that inevitably gave rise to cholera outbreaks . the standard of care at the time was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely . as many people lay dying , a pioneering doctor named dilip service to dilip service to dilip service to a desperate situation . bangladesh knows wartime cholera all too well .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 – the international earth day – marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has a combined 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the single most significant step forward to date in the global fight against climate change . the paris agreement ’s primary objective is to prevent average world temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2100 . but its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s energy policies . in 2016 , a hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above their twentieth-century global average .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history , and also the first civilization that embraces the entire planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hyper-trophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities together with a crisis of global responsibilities . but how to restore in people ’s mind a shared attitude to what is above us if people across the globe have a very different picture of which comes above as long as people everywhere are feeling the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? is there any sense in trying to turn the human mind to the heavens , when such a turn will only aggravate the conflicts on earth among followers of our various deities ? even more succinctly could not today ’s crises of responsibility and accountability in the world as a whole and be the logical consequence of the world ’s modern conception as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws , formulated for god-knows – which is , a concept that does not question , or seeks the deeper meaning of existence and renounces any and all metaphysics ? could the fact that humanity thinks only within what lies at its level of vision and is incapable of remembering also what lies beyond but of the loss of metaphysical certitude under the loss of god ?
at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition that , while underway , is lagging or having stalled in many parts of the world . throwing down the gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : tell us when you phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation from incomes to pollution . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and a major terminating users is critical , as is enlarging affordable and reliable clean-energy services to all who need them . those are the decisions that will drivethe transformation the world needs . major reform of how the transition is financed also needs .
new haven – central bankers around the world have failed to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . and yet , while these central banks have failed in the aftermath of the crisis , they should still play a lead role in preventing another crisis . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials that focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , and central bankers are the logical people to fill this role . that is the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam lake group [ noam ) [ http://squamlakegroup.org/] , the think tank of 15 academic finance economists to which i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that , of 47 central banks discovered the reports of financial stability ( fvs ) , “ virtually all ” gave a “ positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system ” in their most recent report .
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end the daca , he also acknowledged the moral case for maintaining it , saying that he would face a “ very hard ” choice . yet , apparently convinced that daca beneficiaries have taken jobs away from citizens , he has concluded that the same hearts and compassion are needed “ for the unemployed , the struggles , and forgotten americans . ” while vowing during the presidential campaign to end the daca , he has also acknowledged the moral case for maintaining it , saying that he will face a “ very hard ” choice . the sad reality , in making this choice , was that the president opted to turn away from the classical american vision engraved on the statue of liberty in the new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem that begins , “ give me your tired , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that credo has benefited tens of millions of newcomers , immeasurably strengthening america .
tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need adequate resources to win their difficult battles . amlo ’s decision to lower the wages of public employees has already led many high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . trying to accomplish these valuable tasks while paying below-market salaries is penny wise but pound foolish . those who are entitled to early retirement are taking it rather than waiting for amlo to cut . they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated efficiently and to maximize government revenue .
moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on a track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels – well over the next two degrees that climate scientists identify as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs help . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovations , creative coalitions among governments , private companies , and civil-society groups should be established in three main areas . the first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive down renewables , at least until a decade of fossil-fuel energy .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , the earth hour is hard to beat . first organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 by a local chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and the level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates has exploded in recent years , to the point that there is barely a corner of the earth that the campaign has not touched . in a show of official solidarity , the lights also went out at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from the sydney opera house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza ’s great pyramid , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york ’s empire state building , london ’s big ben , paris ’s eiffel tower , and skylines in both hong kong and las vegas . in a stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday in march 27 , nearly one billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by shifting off their lights for an hour . what ever else may be , the earth hour is surely one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed up .
but britain has joined the european community , not just the free-trade area that cameron now apparently wants . even the supremacy of european laws in defined areas was accepted only reluctantly by britain , and long after many others had done so . but the undertow of euroskepticism in british politics has never diminished , and was apparent in cameron ’s speech . essentially a british point of view has been that a loose confederation of nation-states cooperating on trade is as much europe as the uk needs . indeed , in his speech , cameron could not resist a passing shot at the european court of justice .
estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low – to middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population . to be sure , the coal industry has helped billions of people escape poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned the almost 700 % growth in per capita income since 1990 . but human health is at greater risk in countries that burn more coal . research for the global economy and climate action commission last year calculated that particulate matter matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economies – in 2010 . coal-fired power is also a leading source of carbon dioxide , a major climate-responsible greenhouse gas , causing about 150,000 premature deaths annually and threatening pervasive risks this century and beyond .
sometimes , however , this desire appears overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . indeed , democracy nowadays embraced a pop culture of rapidly passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow ; and there are always more waiting in the wings . in politics this may be dangerous , for it encourages basing decisions , no matter how weighty , on whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails . the call for more referenda both reflects , and fuels this trend . referenda are for the most part for the snapshots .
the best topic line says what the message is about and signals a desired response : “ “ the invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” unfortunately , i get lots of messages headlined , “ update . ” or , a “ investment proposition ” for your consideration , ” ” or , “ serve as a reference ? unless i know the person ’s name , i might not even know what company it ’s about . she could , perhaps , say “ “ “ “ message for president ” and serve as a reference ?
india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , has recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . but it is far from clear that sonia gandhi , the president of india ’s national congress , and the country ’s ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda . and yet the changes currently afoot might just turn things around . economists around the world have taken note of the arrival of raghuram rajan as chief economist at the finance ministry . rajan is the superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer in the political economy , and a former chief economist at the imf .
separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a strong commitment to the pursuit of truth is also demanded . these can not be identi­cal to the scientific method ; rather , they should be similar in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria by which political opinions are to be tried . we must abandon popper the tacit assumption that political discourse aims to promote a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . new ground rules for political discourse are needed . politicians will respect rather than manipulate , reality only if the public cares about truth and punishes politicians when it catches them in deliber­ate deception .
the explanations range from anthropological to a borderline racist : indians do not have the genes , built , stamina , a climate , whatever . there are structural and infrastructural explanations : the lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , facilities , financialization , and so on . we are a developing country , it is said ; after all , it is not just an eye against his , your legs against the hers , but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer , their titanium archer . but these rationales will not do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in their medals . why do indian athletes perform so badly ?
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for a new american century ( pnac ) sent a letter to us then-president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . and , after winning the presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq one of his top two security priorities . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of inconclusive evidence . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the 25 signatories of the hague ’s founding declaration of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that , “ we do n’t know with any precision how much we do n’t know ” about the “ status of a wmd program ” in iraq .
in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has changed drastically . the greatest divergence from 2009 to 1979 was shaped by the revolution itself . r evolutions give birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of the narrow ruling stratum and a much broader supporting group , which was given charge of governance and political mobilization . the clerical elite gradually lost power to the military-security groups , from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but we should not exaggerate the significance of this perspective . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
research shows that many girls around the world – and especially those in the global south – are simply not prepared for menarche ; education can help . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss school because they lack access to clean sanitary products . finally , we need fact-based solutions .
economists have long understood that , in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that lender can be monetary or fiscal , and , in greece , both types are in doubt . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral . and the greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks . under these conditions , it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of greek banks .
on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s ’s ’s ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition of the use of force by states to seize territory from their neighbors . in the short run , however , falling countries often take on more risks , and are thus more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . this has shaped the political dilemma . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , and his cyber attacks against america and others , though intended to make russia appear great again , merely worsen the country ’s longstanding prospects . russia , almost entirely dependent on revenues from its energy resources , is a “ one crop economy ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all of the parties involved – and europe most of all . it can ultimately end only with greece ’s renewed bailout , or with europe ’s plunge into disaster . the governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as a failed state and economy . greece needs both money and reform – fast and within the eurozone and eu .
as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill that vacuum . trump ’s presidency provides china with new opportunities to cement its role as an investment provider and all manner of infrastructure and assistance to host countries that are eager to develop . his unilateralist approach is likely to force the us to play catch-up with the left in china in its continued effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it regards as vital , economically , and politically , to its strategic interests . indeed , china ’s ascent has provided a new orbit for many countries around the world – particularly developing and emerging economies . and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic prowess across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative hegemonic power – one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage or moralizing about democracy and human rights .
austin – living in a city turns you into a cannibal . urbanization inures people to rural suffering , and , as townshend crowd together , their capacity for compassion toward others atrophies . urbanites become the kind of people ready to sacrifice one another to please their appetites : the cannibals . that , at least , is the metaphor preferred by jean-jacques rousseau , who regarded cities as a pit of human corruption . rousseau was so convinced of the malign influences of urbanization that he “ would rather see men grazing on meadow grass than devouring each other in cities . ”
if not , could any other country fill this role , even partly ? looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , annual gdp growth rates of 8 % ( versus 10 % for the preceding decade ) , and gradual consumption growth to 50 % of gdp , would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . under this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in dollar terms . in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass america in dollar terms . if apple ’s recent guidance points to a across-the-board , indefinite reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers serve as the global economy ’s sole engine for yet another decade ?
first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many emerging-market economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term lending . nor can policymakers afford to ignore a fourth mismatch – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and a relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for investors , which has fueled speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality . yet , unlike many emerging-market economies , china does not struggle with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which make it a net lender to the rest of the world . at least four imf “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , and three plague china today . but china has failed to avoid a third mismatch , between debt and equity : the credit-to-gdp ratio doubled over the last decade , from about 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets .
in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and security benefits of renewables . with a target of 20 gw of solar-generating capacity by 2020 , india ’s investment in india could grow rapidly . the events of the last 15 months , starting with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by the violence in north africa , and the tragedy in japan , confront a world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and the promise and progress of clean energy . in recent decades , europe has been a motor of energy modernization . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system , together with creative policies to promote that goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory .
for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for local content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual property , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . in october 1982 , the french government required that all jpc imports enter the country through poitiers , city hundreds of miles from the nearest major shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 . even under tariffs and quotas , trade can be impeded by subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping laws , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . human ingenuity appears to know no bounds when it comes to dreaming protectionist barriers .
washington , dc – defeating populism requires coming to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result from a government losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually boost their chances of being re-elected by making wilder and more impossible promises , and by causing more economic damage . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter of the twentieth century : a strong incentive to use debt to prop up demand , and a shift toward financing public debt through private institutions at market prices under the guise of fighting inflation . as a result , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp by 2006 . these trends boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system , with liquidity generated by private banking activities unconnected to transactions in the real economy . the financial sector has since made every effort to design instruments that protect against price fluctuations , turn private-sector debt into tradable financial securities , and gain access to speculative markets . but these efforts have been conducive to fraud and delinquency , and thus have spurred a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , asia in 1997 , and russia in 1998 – along with recessions in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s .
additional opportunities for savings – to the tune of $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . there is massive scope to accelerate land-acquisition approvals and land-acquisition approvals , structure contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and improve collaboration with contractors . similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-review program that identifies 40 major prioritization projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then created a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by 15 % . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed the approval rate by 11 % in just one year . and chile ’s national public investment system evaluates all of the proposed public projects using standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities such as employers , industries , and employees ) , biology , space flight , and many more , and include representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are connected . you soon will be able to . and that means better , more meaningful responses when we search . most things do n’t exist in isolation ; we do n’t exist in isolation . they have complex relationships to other things , and , by representing that information using verbs , for example , “ the company that google acquired ” vs. “ the company that google competes with its ” ” – we can represent the world more accurately .
european commission vice president viviane reding has issued a call for voluntary action last year . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit with its own list of “ board-ready women . ” the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to maintain a certain share of women – up from 60 % in the us . this proposed mandate has been born out of frustration . reding has invited corporations to sign up on gender balance targets of 40 % of female board membership .
cambridge – at the start of the classes every fall , i tease my students with the following question : is it better to be poor in a rich country or rich in a poor country ? that question typically invites a considerable and inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured and limited version of the question , for which there is a definitive answer . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
alternatively , low interest rates could push italy ( or her pension fund ) to purchase risky long-maturity bonds . given the appalling return on savings since 2007 , the prospect of continuing low interest rates might force her to put even more money aside . given that these bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might thus set her way down for a fall when interest rates eventually rise . indeed , america may well be in the process of adding a retirement crisis to the us unemployment problem . she saved because she wanted enough money to retire , so that she could soon .
certainly , the zambians ’ achievement can not compete with the intervention in libya or the drama of the arab spring . and yet , what has happened in zambia is related to those developments – and thus relevant everywhere . after all , smooth power transitions are not taken for granted . what has made zambia ’s election so important is that the challenger has won . indeed , it has defeated an incumbent who really wanted to keep the job , and who might reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in popular voting by simply refusing to accept the result .
as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east . its use of hard power has won the civil war for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , showing how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military forces – witness aleppo ’s utter destruction – can be a game-changer . but russia has since become mired in localized rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey , and the kurds , and israel and iran . russia has , however , become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey , and the kurds , and israel and iran . while a policy of neutrality has enabled russia to maintain dialogue with various sides , it will do nothing to forge a new regional order .
investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benign . with the external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed in once again . investors were willing to buy even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults in the last two centuries . but when inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step in once again , closing the external-financing gap with a stunning $ 50 billion loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . but , again , there was no temporary phenomenon of external funding , and argentinian voters soon began to bristle at the reforms demanded by the imf .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has debated . proponents of helicopter money – directly crediting citizens with central bank funds , or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities – rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting money directly into the hands of those who spend it . indeed , stimulating demand might give central banks the opening they need to shift interest rates back to historic norms . this could take the air out of incipient assets bubbles , which might be forming and ease pressures on institutional investors struggling to find the yield they need to meet their insurance and pension obligations . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured fashion , heading off the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap .
this followed two visits that he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and a donor ’s conference he sponsored in april that sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban took an active role in the gaza crisis . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to the warfare , demanding that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . he also visited the un compound in gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing . he regularly defended palestinians ’ rights to the state , but also denounced hamas ’s rocket attacks on south israel .
boom-and-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business-cycle cycles . moreover , advanced economies ’ spillover effects extend beyond financial shocks . in the last few years , the deficit economies of the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy – have pursued massive external adjustment , with germany and the netherlands sustaining their large surpluses . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , while volatility in capital flows has increased worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in advanced economies . emerging economies are also suffering from the effects of developed countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ external imbalances – particularly the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus .
first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of its military , and the unlikelihood of partition within its leadership makes any extensive violence untenable , particularly given that the egyptian state ’s fight against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s dramatically weakened jihadist groups ’ operational assets in the country . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now be engaged in passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably choose to participate in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . finally , despite significant demographic and economic changes in egypt during the last four decades , egyptian society still retains its agrarian character , which favors conciliation and compromise . in a country with more than 45 million people under 35 years old , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a prolonged impasse . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in short - or medium-term terms , egyptians will have to answer the vexing question they have failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ?
a factor that contributed to their demise was the shift of thinking that transformed east to west away from one that emphasized economic systems in the eu . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s reflected a further advance on rights . but the last decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and during the current decade the tide seems to have turned against the cause of rights . the same is true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela . powerful states like china and russia are not restricting themselves to authoritarian rule at home , but are also supporting those in other countries engaged in similar practices .
for the longer-term health of both individual participants and the global system , these relationships must function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that is perceived as credible . if not , they risk leading to lower growth and welfare levels . supply chains now can have as many significant international linkages as domestic ones , with a substantial share of internal demand being met by products partly or wholly generated abroad . as technological innovation further reduces entry barriers to both producers and consumers , proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , amplifying what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-border interactions and dependencies . this is why the current confrontation between the american and china has raised fears of severe damage , particularly if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a broader trade war .
it is simply a question of whether the us would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west , or european food and agricultural standards over those of the us . if britain wants to do business with others , it will have to agree to common rules . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation . once it is out of the cold , it will have to decide with which economic bloc to align , and then accept that the bloc ’s rules . this is not a matter of sovereignty , or of satrapy .
deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one major cause of a sluggish economic recovery . in europe , structural reforms focus on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . but sluggish growth implies less tax revenues and more demands for payments to cushion hardship , placing pressure on government budgets . in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base are being discussed . a gamble has been that a solid , durable recovery would allow banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets quickly enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts .
nonetheless , dahrendorf remained adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided by voters , rather than by the courts declaring the communist party illegal . bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would endorse the attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister was a member of the resistance . but thadden himself was adamant that thadden ’s fate should be decided by voters , rather than by courts declaring the communist party illegal . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( which had undoubtedly been agreed in advance by east german leaders ) about excluding west germany from the debate .
this asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it for 15 years or longer . though financing for public infrastructure has returned to levels of 2008 , little of it is funneled into new projects . liquidity remains limited in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy of which includes a feckless regulatory regime . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure – investments that are deemed relatively safe , because they entail little or no construction risk , and have shown their potential to generate stable cash revenues . to overcome the impediments to investment , we propose the creation of the asset class what we call “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . he has tricked the international monetary fund into extending a $ 3.4 billion loan , a promising freer election in december 2010 , just to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown , when faced with adverse electoral result and the largest protests his regime has ever witnessed . but , following a recent 64 % devaluation of the currency , the clock seems to be running out on its prolonged misrule . now russia has taken a tougher line , demanding a high price for borrowing , which is , by any measure , insufficient to save the regime . lukashenko was forced by removing russian oil-price subsidies in 2009 to plead , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy out of collapse .
in its current fight with google , for example , china ’s government appears to think that its technologists can provide the means to sustain the old thought control . but liu ’s jailing also demonstrates in the starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights flows to the rest of world alongside the masses of chinese goods . indeed , it has become increasingly apparent that china has opened its economy only to sustain the country ’s over-mighty rulers , rather than to respect and enhance the lives of ordinary chinese . the great advances of china ’s economy over the last 30 years are something all chinese celebrate . but , happily , for anyone with persistence and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like a sieve .
in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” given these mounting concerns , implementation risks are now being presented in a very different light . liu , a lord tactician , seems to be underscoring the link between leadership power and the pace of reform . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted at the prospect of impending reforms with surprising speed . such views do not emerge from the thin air of public services .
a similar picture , though on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing and most vulnerable minority . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves government leaders ’ urgent attention as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . left unchanged , this persistent poverty threatens to become a permanent drag on european prosperity , a tragedy for the roma and non-roma alike . a wide socioeconomic disparity exists between the european majority population and the roma , or “ gypsies ” many of whom live in extreme poverty .
to help find a solution , we have conducted pest ( political , economic , cultural , and technological ) analyses of hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects . on the political front , the main lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security . but where its actions are inadequate , it is the right and responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene . it need not be this way . within the “ one country , two systems ” frameworks , hong kong ’s own government has powers to address internal security concerns .
pro-european forces need a campaign for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown , and most importantly , for a cohesive and aggressive policy to address europe ’s ’s long-term structural problems . above all , it needs a program of ideas on research and development , education , and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population in all member countries . the european parliament elections are less than four months away . should they fail , the prospect of a parliament dominated by populist forces becoming a reality . and this could mark the beginning of a slow process of european disintegration .
when asked whether america was prepared to become the world ’s second-largest economy , they were reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility that an american becoming “ number two ” amounts to a career suicide for an american politician . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who put them in office . intellectuals , by contrast , have a special obligation to think the unthinkable and speak the unspeakable . they are supposedly thought to consider all possibilities , even disagreeable ones , and to prepare populations for prospective developments .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies disrupt entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , was hailed as the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the coming years , the scope and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to the economy , and mexico is no exception .
for example , payroll-tax cuts – which would allow small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – might require reducing rents . in fact , italy ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risking their own capital to launch new firms must pay roughly 50 % of their start-up costs . similarly , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to about 2 % of total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % – and the government plans to slash it further . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , while unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes .
and , though thousands – perhaps tens of thousands – of protesters gathered outside the supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for pis in the 2015 midterm elections . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj is most likely unable to act in time . current polls indicate that the pis ’s popular popularity has risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , civic platform . this suggests that while poles may be unable to agree with pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to take much risk for free courts – or for liberal-democratic principles generally . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that unless the european commission breaks poland ’s will regarding the completion of reforms … if we do not reform the judiciary , other reforms will have little sense , because sooner or later they would be negated , withdrawing the courts that we have now .
tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” and so on , as if the three musketeers were eninterviewed by an oral historian . it is noteworthy that they have been able to achieve consensus on quite a radical program . there is also some routine praise for both presidents they worked with , george w. bush , and barack obama , as well as a reprise of their frustration with those who do not see the world in their way , and an obstructionist approach , like manila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) , and various pesky members of congress . the main concern lies not so much in narrative chapters that cover the same ground as their earlier books , as in their policy recommendations for the future . three proposals in particular should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard .
similarly , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom believe that trump is arrogant , and only 50 % still believe that the us and the united kingdom have a special relationship now that he is in office . sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has been postponed indefinitely . in germany , only 6 % of respondents believe that he is qualified to hold his current offices , and 91 % regard him as arrogant . the countries in which trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , which is led by populist right-wing governments in the us .
in the sixteenth-century british control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france acquired from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its navy . today , it is far from clear how measured the balance of power is , much less how to develop successful strategies of survival . in his inaugural address in 2009 , us president barack obama stated that “ us power grows through its prudent use ; our security emanates from the justness of our cause ; the force of our example , the tempering qualities of humility and restraint . ” shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton said , “ america can not resolve the most pressing problems on our own , and the world can not resolve them without america . conventional wisdom has always held that the state with the largest military prevails , but , in the information age , it may be the state ( or non-state ) with the best narrative that wins .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble has sparked controversy when , evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he said that “ france will be glad if someone can force the parliament ” toward reform . the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiency , the problems with which china is now wrestling . the public consensus supports difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters are able to understand and accept tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that allow them to set policies that are sustainable in the long run , while safeguarding the democratic process itself .
he turned to nebraska ’s university , where he received his undergraduate degrees , and acquired hybrid maize and other improved seeds that the university was developing . he then tracked inputs and weather conditions , which was rarely done . my father realized that he could not go it alone , requiring better access to financing . he had to stay in nebraska , and helped my grandfather save the family farm from banks , which had already repossessed one-third of the land . the most important change my father made was in his mindset : he came to think of the farm not as a subsistence operations , but as a family business .
and it means making europe together with our auto industry , the continent ’s first electric-vehicle by 2030 . second , europe must take the lead in responsible use of resources , becoming a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , eight billion tons of materials are processed into energy or production annually in the eu . it also means applying strict carbon emission limits to new passenger cars , public transportation , and commercial sea and air travel . just 0.6 billion tons – a mere 7.5 % – originate from recycling .
but the payoff , for both america and the liberal world order that it created , would be substantial . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into the foreign-policy debate that led to america ’s election , including by preparing a public debate paper . from my perspective as the group ’s sole european member , an overarching message should be that america must conceive of itself not as “ indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as “ a indispensable partner . ” this is not simply a matter of semantics ; such a change will require the american people to re-conceive its role in the world . the key to success will be america ’s capacity to retain the best – and to abandon the worst – of that most american notions : the exceptionalism .
xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply a “ restoration ” of the country ’s success enjoyed before nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted its harmonious system . outsiders misread this system – “ built on a clearly defined scheme , ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-line royal legitimacy at the very top ” and “ scholar gentry to administer state ” affairs – as a recipe for stagnation . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita suggest that china ’s economically sound “ retardation ” began well before its encounter with the west . from 1,500 to 1870 , per capita income barely moved from $ 600 , while the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) , and even spain doubled . china ’s political stability , and its relative absence of violence , were thus to come at the expense of economic dynamism , not in harmony with it .
this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan , which serves syrian refugees . morocco is well positioned to promote security and development across northwest africa and beyond . moreover , morocco is a loyal and longstanding us ally . its political stability , an open economy , and balanced international relations are increasingly aligned with america ’s and european regional interests . the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex region .
the first is a compulsion to be the first to establish entirely trivial facts about science . as i grow older , i am no longer certain why this is so important , but the male members of our species seem to think that it is . i suspect that here the problem reflects fundamental differences between how women and men approach science as a microcosm of life . most of my fellow male faculty are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven types ; but in their scientific careers , they depict two types of typically male behavior . gender faculty issues are far more complicated , particularly in the business sciences .
this , together with the prominence of a consultative council ( which includes the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , the french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , the brookings institution fellow ) , and the sensitivity of minority rights in general , combined to give the project national , regional , and international notice . so far , syria ’s authorities have not responded to the tharwa project . it is probably still too early to do so . but the project appears to represent the type of activity that can help to produce visions for change . some in the syrian government could be aware of this .
if we are to learn anything from an ongoing crisis , it must be to start asking the right questions . every new bilateral agreement , every chapter in globalization , should be measured against new criteria . will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities to those who become economically displaced ? will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities to those who become economically displaced ? that growth reflects the flawed economic model of the pre-crisis years that relied on indifference to where growth originated , how sustainable it was , and who benefited from it .
cambridge – in a euphoric moment immediately following the soviet union ’s collapse , few would have guessed that ukraine – a industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural resources – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , has managed almost to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity ) over the next three decades . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , like they did before the global financial crisis . now , consider the other major emerging markets . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks undertake this peculiar financial intermediation , which constitutes a major cost , because private money yields higher reserve requirements ? here currency appreciation is already taking hold , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 and , to some extent , can say excessive ( for example , brazil ) . the result is obviously paradoxical : private funds that flow into these countries are recycled into us treasury securities via investment of accumulated reserve holdings .
the final blow came when interbank lending , which is at the heart of the financial system , was impaired , because banks were forced to husband their resources and unable to trust their counterparties . that made the crisis more severe than any since the end of world war ii . central banks were forced to inject unprecedented amounts of money and extend credit on an unprecedented array of securities to a broader set of institutions than ever before . credit expansion must now be followed by a period of contraction , because some new credit instruments and practices are misdirected and unsustainable . the asset-backed commercial paper market came to a standstill , and the special investment vehicles established by banks to get mortgages off their balance sheets could no longer get outside financing .
trump ’s greatest difficulty is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal , officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) , from which he withdrew the united states , have remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the deal , and to doing everything possible to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to adhere to it . the european signatories have established a special mechanism to facilitate trade and business with iran at the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china have expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the western alliance ’s history that america ’s european allies have joined forces with its rivals . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . to compare , the average american now pays 15 cents on the dollar . an effective solution to this problem exists : solar-power technology . the african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save $ 58 a year , on average , by installing solar panels – the money they can spend on education , health , and productive investment . firms that provide these panels , of course , would also benefit considerably from tapping this large new market .
this process has been unfolding for centuries , but has accelerated in recent decades , as a select few have acquired ever-larger shares of total wealth and political influence . even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keeping global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . today , just 100 corporations produce 71 % of the greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % of people account for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % produce 10 % of their emissions . unwilling to counter those who are destroying our planet , political leaders have latched on to technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere .
and if growth slows , owing to the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can compensate for this by driving up interest rates more slowly . foreign central banks can do likewise , as well as the us federal reserve . imports are 15 % of us gdp , while imports are 15 % . allow some substitution away from more expensive imported goods . multiply $ 0.15 by $ 0.10 ( hypothesized tariff rate ) and you get 1.5 % .
the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance of individual rights , including the right to citizenship and to the public good . suppose that the government gets it right 19 times out of 20 when it relies on suspicion of engaging in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . if this were true of the uk government ’s decisions in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen is made stateless . and yet simply revoking citizenship does not solve the problem of leaving at great a suspected terrorist , who may then conduct attacks elsewhere – unless , as with sakr , he is killed . the ability to revoking citizenship without presenting any evidence in public is one reason why the government may prefer this course to arresting and trying terrorism suspects .
in particular , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop financing new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . government and business together should finance new research and development to drive costs even lower . governments should set emissions limits , and the private sector should compete to deliver low-cost solutions . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower still further costs for renewable-energy systems , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream uses such as electric vehicles , electric heating , and cooking , and a new hydrogen economy . as old fossil-fuel plants age and shut down , clean power generation should be replaced on a competitive footing , for example , through renewable-energy auctions .
in the alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta , might eventually prove too unwieldy to be workable . what the mikta countries share are rapid economic growth and growing influence outside of their own borders . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of brazil ( the brics , minus russia ) . they have development problems , but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovation , with substantial stakes in the way post-wwii global institutions and rules should be reshaped .
much of the “ stimulus ” merely financed increased spending by state governments that would pay off in other ways . it was too small to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt than to gdp . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policy , ” ” ” ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate extremely low for an extended period of time . the goal was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to us equities and other assets , with the resulting increase in the price push for household wealth and consumer spending .
in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not the issue . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily joining the eu . indeed , danish voters have seen most of the benefits of euro membership already , owing to the danish krone ’s unquestioned link first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on a failure of the euro ’s supporters to explain the divergence between that unchallenged policy and full european participation . despite various starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to see the euro as a cap stone in constructing the single market rather than as a stepping stone to a closer union .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that north korea must move first toward denuclearization before any form of economic assistance is offered . but there is no reason why international efforts to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . we need not assume that such goals can not be pursued in parallel . on the contrary , it may be impossible to win north korea ’s assent to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change .
the mutual mistrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably harm the soul of both the union and the entire european project . and no one should doubt that the front and its voters mean what they say . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem able to address . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has resulted in a massive distributional conflict . what once was a relationship among equals has given way to a face-off between debtors and creditor .
in a section of the “ new economy ” dominated by the producers ’ economies of scale and consumers ’ economies of scope , a firm that establishes a lead in the market ’s share gains a near-overwhelming advantage . the larger the market , the larger the cost advantage , is the larger the home . a version with the largest market share becomes the norm ; it is the easiest to figure out how to use ; the easiest to find support for ; and the one that works best with other products ( which , of course , are designed to work best with it ) . moreover , internet-produced information goods are also more valuable for consumers . unless its competitors take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly steps -- like those taken by microsoft against the netscape , its rival in the internet browser market by pouring a fortune into creating its internet explorer , and then distributing it for free -- the first firm to establish a dominant market position will reap high returns as long as its industry lasts .
this is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how many to admit , and it should implement organized ways to facilitate their entry . the most urgent priority is to create safe and legal pathways for refugees to reach europe . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by enabling it to vet applicants fully ) . this does not imply that every vulnerable migrant must be accepted .
citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have changed as dramatically as their responses to poll questions . in recent years , american politics and political institutions have become more polarized than the distribution of opinions in the american public suggests . as an economist ’s editorial recently concluded , “ america ’s political system has been designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy . three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , and say the quality of life there is excellent or good ; 40 % say working with others in their communities is the most important thing they can do . the situation was aggravated by the post-2008 economic downturn .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or as a moving picture , telling us not just where we are but where we have been , and where we may be headed . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . it is a distinction with an enormous difference . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while providing fair access to services among residents , should be subsidized by the central government . this does not necessarily mean inundating people with news stories of global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach can result in desensitizing communities . innovation can also drive pollution abatement . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while providing fair access to services among residents , should be subsidized by the central government . for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter transportation , leverages cities ’s well-known innovative capacities , while addressing congestion .
in the meantime , the most urgent priority is a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . a saudi protectorate may well be the key to reaching that . perhaps , but , so far , conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even disastrously . everything else that has already failed to fail may be the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an overall agreement – could once again be launched .
and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public on the true purpose of the rescue operation . first , the european financial stability facility must serve to rescue the banking system in the same way as member states . bringing the banking system under european supervision rather than leaving it in the hands of national authorities would be a fundamental improvement that helps to restore confidence . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , because any amount used for recapitalization or liquidating banks would reduce the amount needed for governments . this would allow sovereign debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis .
second , without effective and responsible opposition , governments can become arrogant , careless , and narrowly focused on their own supporters . while no one knows that position corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some trade-union bosses who support him , might decide that the eu is a rich man ’s club , thereby precluding a much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership . on the contrary , at the outset , may galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary respect but is little liked . in this case , the leaders of the conservative party ’s far-right component are probably thinking that they may dispense with offering disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , anyway . third , at some point over the next year , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union .
the bailout was brought about by aig ’s large losses on derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players , such as goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , so that the government provided substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . america ’s government felt that it had a weak hand , because it was unprepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations . at that point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take a voluntary , “ haircut ” ” ” ” haircut , that is , accepting a discount on the amounts owed to them . when some of these parties refused , the government backed down , and financed aig ’s payment of all of its derivative obligations
at last , the world must recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s peace process have been thoroughly dashed . israel has long assumed that it has no interest in renewing its control over the gaza strip . in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes things clearer . gaza is ruled by a wholly hostile regime . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border strikes and continuing rocket fire on civilian targets within the country .
the aberrant period in us history is the hundred or so years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecoms , and transportation have fundamentally reshaped societies . human lives have become markedly more productive , with the life expectancies increasing dramatically . in the late 1970s , growth started to slow in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that supercharged activity . technological innovation and demographics are now a headwind , not tailwind , for growth and financial engineering can not save the day . technological innovation and demographics are now a headwind , not tailwind , for growth and financial engineering can not save the day .
the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , is an exemplar of this muddled legacy . japan ’s core of political inertia consists in the current pseudotwo-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because the parties ’ divisions are , in fact , devoid of any consistent ideological and policy differences . the sad truth is that the chances that the ldp will reform , or that the dpj will evolve into a responsible governing party in the foreseeable future are slim . both parties include conservatives and liberals , the defense hawks and the doves . japan seems condemned to tolerate chronic and pointless political trench warfare until some of the crisis forces a realignment of political parties along ideological and policy lines .
that would require conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats , and also mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him , a tall order . likewise , the rebel conservatives ’ motley crew would need to support the formation of a caretaker government that sought an extension of brexit , call a general election , and perhaps also legislate for a second referendum . moreover , labor-market leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . and , because his suspension of the parliament outraged rebel conservatives who balked at bringing down their own government , a no-confidence vote now stands a greater chance of succeeding . but bringing down the government would be insufficient to stop a no-deal brexit .
that arrangement also required the typically vigilant u.s. internal revenue service to play along . curiously , the irs is choosing not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip returns . as a result , these profits should be taxed in the us . asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based on research and development conducted exclusively in the us ( most of it underpinning federal government funding ) . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee to allow it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a tiny tax to the irs .
pekos ’ political style has been enabled by modern news media , which , scrambling for the share of the audience , simplify , and sensationalization issues . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , producing the electoral polarization on which the pekos have the fed . this political strategy is , no doubt , effective . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most exposure . each has acquired ( or maintained ) power through polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base .
that suggestion may be amusing from a baby , but there is nothing funny when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to complicated policies that involve science and technology . to gauge public opinion in advance of the decision scheduled for later this year on whether to allow commercial planting in gm crops , the british government sponsored ( at great expense ) a series of public debate around the country . the head of the british debates ’ organizing committee , professor malcolm grant , has called them a “ unique experiment to find out what ordinary people really think once they have heard all the arguments . ” britons had their say during the summer on whether they wanted gene-spliced , or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields and food . local governments and other organizations have held hundreds of additional public meetings .
there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders who are willing to return to business as usual with russia , and academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after its collapse , see a chance for vindication . in fact , the kremlin is financing many of these parties . today , european governments seem willing to allow putin to buy votes with which he is destroying the eu . and , with public opinion polls indicating that a substantial minority of europeans are falling in line with putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato seems to be making a real headway . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes .
in germany alone , construction projects claim more than 75 hectares a day . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to shape ; in many places , a cloudburst is now all it takes to wash it away . improper agricultural practices are also to blame : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizer , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting the soil and alter its structure . at the same time , global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels is growing , in turn driving up land values – a failure that has not escaped international investors ’ attention . according to a world bank estimate , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – the land used by millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous people – has been affected by large-scale investment .
that is a curious idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded the american economy ’s underlying weaknesses . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at putting pressure on the defiant states . an american war against iran is plausible only as a response to a blatant and immediate iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as a major terrorist attack , an invasion of an ally in the gulf , or a disruption of the free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . convinced that history will judge the president by his success in containing the iranian threat , broder also assumes that a war with iran would reignite the american economy .
in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continues to impede investments required to modernize public-sector enterprises , and place a major roadblock in the path of land reform . for example , when the government borrows to buy land , it is treated as debt , but a offsetting transaction when it sells land through the mortgage effectively go unrecognized . it is here that germany should take pause . the imf ’s economic framework still does not provide for counter-cyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy during a downturn . while germany ’s president is not supposed to intervene in the country ’s day-to-day management , his votes will undoubtedly be influential .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as us president , but questions about russia ’s interference in the election will not go away . yet one key question is often lost on the fray : why did russian president vladimir putin do so ? of course , it is not hard to guess why putin favored trump toward his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hoping for an outcome and playing great lengths – and incurring great risks – to help bring it about . in our view , american intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by aiding trump , the kremlin was advancing its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not entirely compelling .
specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances india ’s ease of doing business while targeting better delivery mechanisms for welfare regimes . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an 8-8.5 % rate in the coming fiscal year . no budget changes could generate such a marked , cost-free acceleration in growth . but finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts , not least in its convergence of vision and implementation . it is fair to say that the usually staid department stole the thunder from this year ’s budget .
in its first decades , communist china built its military strength and simultaneously exploited the soft power of the maoist revolutionary doctrine and third world solidarity to cultivate allies abroad . but , following the depletion of the maoist strategy in the 1970s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development . after the failure of its imperialist , greater east asia co-prosperity scheme of the 1930 ’s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and relied on strategic alliances with the us . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , spending substantial resources to make itself an attractive overseas . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country developed only modest military and soft power .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as it takes down a retired member of the politburo standing committee , china ’s most powerful body . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to remain on reform momentum . to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even tough bones ” – that is , overcome the vested interests that are resisting change . regulatory reforms are beginning to mitigate shadow-banking risks , and even some ghost towns are being revived by market forces . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since the start of this year , and the authorities seem well off the way to strike the carbon-target established in 2010 .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
in keeping with the spirit of times , governments introduce business criteria for measuring efficiency -- and “ success , ” more generally , -- in public services . this means , first and foremost , that they set performance targets . so the ministers proclaim that street crimes will be halved next spring , or that the proportion of each generation going to universities will rise to 50 % in the next five years . waiting lists for hospital beds will be slashed by one-third within two years . this governance method makes it appear that , at long last , we can hold policymakers accountable by establishing whether or not the targets were reached .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo has invented a new extreme sport , a soccer game in which he is the sole player . instead of kicking the ball to win , he aims to make sure that his opponent scores . this helps to explain why , with more than half of his term left , the man who led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % popularity rating today – any peruvian leader since 1980 ’s , when democracy was re-established . toledo assumed the presidency planning to dismantle the corruption that marked fujimori ’s administrations and end the reign of his crooked chief of intelligence , vladimiro montesinos . toledo claimed that he would send all dishonest officials to prison – words that captured the fantasy of peruvians yearning to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his 1980 debate with carter is often credited with his victory . in 2004 , shortly before the election , osama bin laden unleashed a video-tape that may have helped president bush defeat senator john kerry . a mistake in the us presidential debate may turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened to president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were more useful to his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry could have had . another event that could turn the tables would be the “ october surprise ” ” ” ” ” associated with terrorism , which could shift the agenda from the financial crisis back to security , the republicans ’ stronger suit .
so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance into politics bring about the ideal solution to the problem of finding putin ’s heir ? that search , after all , threatens to divide the national elite . but i see a practical turn in all of this that no one has yet broached . let us compare two potential presidential candidates in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
their mythical tribe was great in some mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the united nations sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 depends entirely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and general undermining the liberal world order will severely harm the extremes of africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help coal miners in west virginia . powerful will always manage , but the weak will bear the burden of nostalgic protectionism that is eroding globalization ’s benefits .
without question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as the backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions developed . moreover , the chinese state has been solving coordination problems that are not readily or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities can be at different stages of development . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must maintain a prominent role , in defusing the social stability needed to sustain economic development . others argue that spurring the innovation needed to reach high-income status requires that the state be less like a market participant and more like a referee , a regulator , and an arbiter of economic and social priorities . state involvement is also needed to help manage inequality and ensure that inclusive growth patterns are inclusive , which markets alone can not count on to do
egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of much-needed international monetary fund credit . almost all of egypt ’s political stakeholders , as in the other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform . but the economic urgency does not translate into policy responses that have been painfully slow or non-existent . last year ’s government ’s cut of fuel subsidies did not follow through on incremental reforms , and the required tax increase was delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that among the nearly one-half that are cut in public expenditures , common adjustment measures include public-sector wage or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . such adjustment measures are often adopted , without carefully scrutinizing their social impact . how many poor children will suffer – or die – from food shortages and healthcare ? and yet that could very well happen . how many children miss out on education because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family income ?
indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . the world has a large stake in which scenario prevails . the first scenario is bleak : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , political discontent surges , and newcomers become increasingly frustrated with its plight . any steps they take to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists , and could lead to violence from both sides . if , at worst , a terrorist attack were to be introduced – especially one that could , to some extent , join refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
in this respect , the fact that the demand for mubarak ’s immediate resignation originated from cairo ’s tahrir square rather than from the obama administration represents a positive development . by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or horses – to charge into cairo ’s tahrir square , and to attack thousands of anti-government protesters was a classic “ army as the government ” move . at that point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting the protesters . what is clear is that the “ military ’s interest ” as institution ” depends on the army ’s capacity to establish much greater separation from the regime . successful political transitions are also helped if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own ” the protests and the resulting transition .
evidently , american policymakers are increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . but does the operation of uganda , following so closely on the intervention in libya , herald a police role for the american people whenever the un or the icc , which , lacking any police force , rely on their members and interstate cooperation – the judges it needs ? at the same time , apparently , will work in close collaboration with ugandan forces . but the scale of american cooperation with the icc has far exceeded even the constructive role the obama administration has proposed . given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in us courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to both international and domestic political attack .
deep at the heart of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves , not the state ; that people can cross the oceans and mountains to make for themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed it do not through luck and corruption but through preparation and industry . one poll found that 19 % of americans believe that their incomes put them in the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that about 20 % more hope for the top 1 % someday . these are not beliefs conducive to social democracy , but they are not beliefs conducive to social democracy . so why not americans feel more alarm at their countries ’ rising income inequality ? part of the reason that they fail is that most americans fail to recognize what works .
that is the course that world leaders set when they met at the united nations in new york on september 25 to adopt the goals of sustainable development ( sdgs ) . they emerged from the largest summit in the un ’s history , the “ rio +20 conference ” in 2012 , followed by the largest consultation the un has ever undertaken . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to protect the planet ’s biosphere , and to providing energy for all . stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity . if we set our minds , we could be the first in human history to leave our children nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity .
the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , became the object of conspiracy theories and the target of intense harassment after being present at two terrorist attacks within two weeks of each other . victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and many , with their sense of security and even self-worth eroded , remove themselves from social media altogether . so the noisiest is often rewarded with a megaphone , while less polarizing , less privileged voices are drowned out , even as they are providing the smart , nuanced perspectives that may indeed enrich public debate . women and minorities are especially likely to be victims of online harassment , but anyone may be targeted . unless the algorithm does the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hateful and threatening speech at whomever they choose .
africans do n't vote ; they do n't buy us products ; they do n't threaten violence . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden people . few rich countries do better in america than the u.s. . i single out america not because it is unique in its neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead . africans barely count in american politics ; africans do n't .
this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . in my view , keynes ’s major contribution to economic theory was to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness of the underlying knowledge upon which our estimates of prospective yield must be made . ” krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributes a crash to “ irrationality ” that , as cochrane points out , is no theory . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . hence , as he put it in 1932 , there may be “ no escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression , except through direct state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” – which is what the obama administration rightly does .
cape town – nowadays , people are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . sometimes , however , moral rectitude and economic interest merge , presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case from the perspectives of this archbishop and former treasury secretary , with the world ’s response to climate change . indeed , their possibilities sometimes seem to be mutually exclusive , making the decisions of which path to exceedingly challenging . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , because the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature changes , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who also benefited the least from the economic activities that cause it .
he was the french scene ’s consummate artist , chameleon beamed out on satellite tv , dripping with fake swedish , and real glitz , an artist who , like the novelist , pled guilty as a way of lying . and on that day , he lamented so well that his absence seemed part of a show , somehow making us forgetting that he was no longer with us . hallyday was the child of the generation that watched american gis enter paris , and that invented for itself as an american ascendance . abiding in each of us was johnny led by the ’60s rocker of the sad wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , a catcher in rye sentiment , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn him to live on the edge of every form of excess . and then there was the eyes of the ’60s rocker with the sad wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , the catcher in rye ’s mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn him to live on the edge of every form of excess .
moreover , in the post-wwii decades , capitalism has maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . above all , every advanced economy has pursued policies designed to provide high wages , guaranteeing high consumption , and thus rapid growth . job insecurity back then was mostly unknown , and mass poverty has vanished . keys to this period of growth and happiness have been a strong social-welfare system , and mainly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in all big states . of course , it was subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to financial crises of the type we see regularly today .
but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employed a language of political ambiguity . that seems to reflect a stance – expressed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – that helped to set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would be no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . solidarity ( at least the kind that cost money ) stopped at the english channel . we are both interested and associated , but not absorbed .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and on other governments in the future – to reassure and account for protestant safety . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who support the free assembly . that will be welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by american opposition leaders and journalists dead in us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in just such protests . in this crisis , an american president should form a united front with human-rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow , sustain , and support those iranians who have been or may not yet be apprehended , or worse . natan sharansky has said that this tactic , the west tracking and demanding accountability in treating individual internal dissenters , helped to break the soviet union .
closer ties between russia and the european union make sense for similar reasons . losing a country and a special place in the world is the sort of trauma that could lead to extreme and potentially violent nationalism . russia should be treated as a major power , implying consultations on important global issues . there should also be some understanding for what russia and the russian people have gone through over the last two decades . russia ’s membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world .
but a consensus has emerged in brazil that a center-left party can neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s presidency has failed to challenge this view . whatever the case , for key brazilian leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become part of the solution , not a fundamental problem . the consensus may have reflected the success of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and the growth of brazil ’s middle class . the biggest are not always the rule of law on which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a company that fails , or a polity that will implode . investors take all kinds of risks , and they are not .
one big loser in this world will be freight companies ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . when things can be made , used , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation declines dramatically . of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenue – and not just apple ’s . products will not need to be made in those factories , and then shipped to customers or inventory centers . recycled materials need not be delivered to centralized processing centers , and then passed to factories .
london – in the 1960 ’s , the green revolution – which included the development of high-yielding crop varieties , the spread of irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered farm output worldwide . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in developing countries , which are hit by most crop shortages and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to exceed nine billion , according to the international monetary fund . achieving food security means ensuring that all people have consistent , affordable access to people with the right nutrients , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and the growing prevalence of resource-intensive , western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . reversing these challenges will not be easy , however .
turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence felt . indeed , for many years erdoğan ’s government has been denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” of the economy . but the course of history may change rapidly . in reality , turkey needs europe as much as europe needs turkey . europe is to turkey “ find a principle of moderation ” and an enticement to remain democratic .
yet government spending on cancer averages around $ 4 billion per year . that is just over 0.5 % of the annual military budget of roughly $ 718 billion . more people died from cervical cancer in the united states last year than in combat . in fact , last year , ’s 580,000 cervical cancer deaths exceed roughly 430,000 combat deaths , on average , in world war i , world war i , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . by contrast , experience indicates that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats until they reach a crisis point .
a journalist visiting saudi arabia recently asked me why five out of the six students he interviewed at the university of saud still believe that al qaida was not responsible for attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon in america last year ? dealing with this question is increasingly frustrating to me , because i have run out of plausible explanations . i used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . i hoped that we would have the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and to start looking deep into our national psyche , asking the big question , “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a manner ? ” so far , we are no closer than we were after the attack to respond to that question , because we can not even find the nerve to ask it .
moreover , income inequality has widened , with a global phenomenon increasing concentration of wealth at the very top in many arab countries . while tunisia has been an extreme case of a regime furthering the economic interests of insiders , the pattern has been widespread . top incomes in these countries have resulted largely from political patronage rather than from innovation and hard work . that is why a knee-jerk , simplistic washington consensus policies ’ prescription of more liberalization and privatization is inconvenient for the arab world in 2012 . there is a clear political need for a growth strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece , not an afterthought .
germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means acutely vulnerable to the trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by its major trading partners . but that is no longer the case , either . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are not just about trade , but about america ’s departure from pax americana itself . few countries are more interconnected to the post-war order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-war economic resurgence to the rules-based trading system . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model , as it has existed since the 1950s .
with inequality also rising , many french are rightly upset that labor is taxed far more than capital gains . the simplest way to achieve both goals would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries . france has some of the eu ’s highest labor costs on hourly employees , and a natural consequence is tepid hiring . during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , it should focus on raising france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year , and lower unemployment to below 6 % . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs .
if low oil prices persist , and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of the money supply by the end of 2016 . but collapsing oil prices , combined with tough economic sanctions imposed by the american and european governments , mean that by the end of this month the government forecasts a 4 % decline in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , and that after budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that by the end of this year , russia will spend 70 % of the reserve fund ’s reserve fund accrued over the last decade , or so when oil prices were high . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at about 80 % . in early december , putin signed the federal budget in 2015 , calling for 2 % annual gdp growth and fiscal deficits at amounting to 0.5 % of gdp .
given that libra will take the form of private money that is tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would this work in practice ? a standard “ efficient market ” analysis does not help us to answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting . if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with the sole touch of their smartphones , would n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first hint of trouble in the domestic economy ? but , of course , libra is selling as much more . as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to send money to be as easy as sending a text message . ”
the yield on ten-year german bonds that might be expected to go higher , owing to the deterioration in inflationary expectations during this period , barely moved forward . this is a big plus for sustaining economic recovery . the recently rising euro also helped to keep down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorated slightly on the euro-zone . should bush , bernanke , or new treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in america ’s financial assets at some point in time , a rising euro will help shield european interest rates from the consequences . during april , the rise in inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation occurred more or less concurrently .
this political entity is a precise counterpart in the political world to a well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring poland . when stressed , large surface bifurcates in big chunks , but then the disintegration continues into smaller and smaller fragments . of the six larger eu states , only france has a genuinely well-defined centralized political system . poland ’s centralism comes close , but strong regional disparities persist , a legacy of the three large and quite different imperial systems that the encompassed today ’s poland in the nineteenth century . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with a future to be determined by a scottish referendum in 2014 .
we believe in a matter of banknotes , because we collectively decide to trust the government when it says that 100 are 100 , rather than ten or 50 , respectively . money , therefore , is about trust , without which no society can function . just as we follow our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers , and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks , because we tend to believe that their leaders will be fair to their employees and clients , and honorable in their business practices . once that trust break down , bad things happen , too . we do not grow up wishing to work for crooks and liars .
likewise , far from fitting the democratic machine ’s mold , sanders is working to pull the party back “ to the social democratic left where it is . ” he has created an environment in which demands for radical change have led to compromise , not rage – in sharp contrast to , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . despite rising to power with the kgb ’s support , he has failed to surrender his thought processes to that machine , in the way president vladimir putin clearly has . ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not save ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . like francis and sanders , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer .
america ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators throw around large numbers when describing the gains from even imperfect agreements . those in the developing world who believe that there has been history of bargaining in bad faith have a powerful case . that leaves developing countries facing tough choices : will they be better off accepting the crumbs that they offer ? whatever economics , taking that route may be harder than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that accept what is widely viewed as another unfair trade deal .
princeton – recently , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most potent particle accelerator , located near geneva at the european nuclear research organization ( cern ) – announced that the celebrated discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson was actually the higgs boson . four years ago , the doomsayers forecast that the lhc would produce microscopic black holes that would swallow the earth in a matter of months . these prophets were , of course , neither the first nor the last . the latter-day nostradamuses has provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , about high-energy experiments in particle physics . now the standard model of particle physics is complete , with the possible exception of one important thing : black holes .
monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments tried to tame hyperinflation , which peaked at 2,477 % in 1993 . the introduction of the “ real plan , ” launched in 1994 , managed to suppress annual price growth to an “ acceptable ” ” 22 % by the following year . today , as advanced-country central bankers fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond with widespread fear of slowing growth and a return to high inflation . riding the plan ’s success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , former economy minister , was twice elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concern about price stability .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum has been grim . most chastened of all were central bankers . those who think that globalization , technology , and a market economy will solve the world ’s problems seem subdued . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and the fragility of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they had done a short time ago . and it was not only the central bankers that were at davos doghouse this year , but also their regulators – central bankers .
banks and politics are deeply intertwined in all advanced economies . now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone periphery , government defaults are threatening to take down big banks . the european central bank has provided a great deal of emergency “ liquidity ” financing to banks , which they are using to purchase even more government debt . this holds down the interest rate on that short-run debt , but creates even bigger potential losses in the case of potential default . diamond discovered that , ultimately , politicians of trump ’s central bankers – at least in the uk .
even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980s has become an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiencies in existing production systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning the division of labor in infrastructure investment and public-sector management , with the goal of crowding in the latter . despite low average growth rates , per capita income in the bottom quintile grew at over 6 % annually in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social policies . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy , including improved access to health care , financial services , and education , brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead .
iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the rest . according to the most recent data that runs through july or august for most countries , there are “ just 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line in a figure ) . in the period following the 1970s oil shocks until the early 1980s , nearly two-thirds of the countries recorded inflation rates above 10 % . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( the green line ) is higher in 2015 than it is if countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of the total ) . venezuela ( which has not published official inflation statistics this year ) and argentina ( which has not released reliable inflation data for a few years ) figure prominently in that group .
on the european continent , this has been happening since the 1970s . there is , of course , an alternative . for the most part , the quick fixes they have imposed so far have not been very successful . in the absence of sufficient funding , one can simply let the universities deteriorate further . overcrowded classes in often insufficient physical surroundings without the needed equipment have led to ever longer study periods , deteriorating quality size , and much unhappiness among students and professors .
two million kosovars suffered from milosevic 's rule in every aspect of their lives , from basic security to education . for years , they tried to express their grievances through peaceful means . only war 's bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . as a political activist in the final days of yugoslavia , i tried to build upon the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . the need for kosovo to free itself from milosevic 's grip has been so apparent for a decade .
the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , established in 1928 . a half-century later , the arab world ’s simultaneous revolts have resulted from neither political tendencies , instead reflecting widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . but , with syria mired in a brutal civil war claiming more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the verge of collapse , and egypt returning power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia has been its only success . at the same time , nation-building efforts along secular lines were reflected in egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s pan-arabism and the syrian baath party , resulting in the united arab republic ’s establishment , the union between egypt and syria , which lasted from 1958 to 1961 . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thereby clearing the way for what will be the most secular and fairest elections in any of the region ’s countries .
berlin – how we eat in the industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . far too much of the meat that we consume is produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions . and now our industrial model for meat production is being exported to the global south – particularly india and china – where meat consumption is rising among these countries ’ ’ ’ emerging middle classes . worldwide , 300 million tons of meat is produced annually , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that the annual total will increase to 455 million tons by 2050 , if demand continues to grow at its current pace . such large amounts of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale and at high social , political , and ecological costs .
cambridge – for some time now , the four horsemen of america ’s macroeconomic policymaking have been taxation , regulation , trade and infrastructure . having studied the first in detail , i have found tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . while i have regarded the second area in less detail , evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , just a minor contributor to growth . a third area is highly important , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so daunting . the fourth area exists only in rhetoric : an infrastructure program currently does not belong to the macroeconomic policy repertoire .
but there will be a time when this tailwind subsides , and china begins to converge on the advanced economies ’ so-called frontier . at that point , china will face the same productivity challenges confronting america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth seems to recognize this risk . as gordon notes , there have been long-lasting productivity dividends associated with urbanization , a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle .
at $ 17.8 trillion , the stock of cofina bonds ( backed by future sales-tax revenues ) accounts for more than one-third of the total debt in the new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , driven by an unrealistic assessment of the commonwealth ’s economic conditions . the sad truth is that the window of opportunity for the right puerto rico ’s fiscal ship has not been captured . on the contrary , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan and agreement with holders of bonds issued by the puerto rican urgent interest fund corporation ( cofina ) , which could place the island in a debt straitjacket indefinitely . but the plan was projected to deflate economic activity even further , and it failed to lay the proper basis for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would need .
ten years on , what impact have on displaced people ’s lives ? we have raised awareness about the plight of the displaced , brought about changes in government policies , and raised billions of dollars to respond to their basic needs . this has helped to save countless lives . the achievements are notable , if insufficient . humanitarian efforts continue to be reinforced , including through a new quick funding mechanism , the un ’s central emergency response fund .
we can adapt that judgment to a man or woman who wears a $ 30,000 watch , or buys similar luxury goods , like a $ 12,000 handbag . “ the man who dies the rich , ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . ” in essence , such a person is saying ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or just plain selfish . wearing a watch that costs 200 times more than one that does a better job of keeping time says something else , even when it stacks up people who are not governing a relatively poor country . andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen of veblen of ’s era , was blunt in his moral judgments .
in this monumental work , totaling some 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the idea – almost universally assumed by economists and many philosophers from david hume – that the role of reason tells us how to get what we want , but not tell us what to want . parfit , by contrast , argued that desires can be irrational . he shows that both the “ total ” and the “ average ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . but then , so do every other answer that has been proposed since parfit revived the problem and other philosophers began offering their own solutions . if reasons and individuals could easily have been three separate books , on what matters really are : the first two volumes were published in 2011 , while a third , in the press when parfit died , has just emerged .
furthermore , we must reduce mental health inequity , a frequently ignored issue . this is often a problem in lower-income communities , where populations may be at greater risk of pathology and often face the highest barriers to getting care , partly owing to the lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to tackling this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its representatives in davos . by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , schools , and communities as well . seeking mental-health care should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high blood pressure , diabetes , or heart settings .
experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack due to a dubai takeover is small . because of this , americans can not afford to take even the minutest of chances with their ports – the consequences of error being too staggering to contemplate . should the damage inflicted by a terrorist attack also be small , there would be no problem . but the damage inflicted by the attack might be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways that terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons in the us . the american public understands this even if their president does not .
but four political developments that have shaped the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right . first , the revolutions in the arab world , and nato ’s military intervention in libya , have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have enormous impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates has revived the debate on transatlantic burden sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit to be held in the united states in 13 years is occurring not only in an election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown .
yet the smallholders can not be ignored when it comes to climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production , and provide up to 80 % of food in developing countries . together , they manage the vast areas of our planet , including 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on these farmers , many of them desperately poor , to assume a leadership role in addressing twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ? can they produce more food while protecting the natural environment ? we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes .
one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as has the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright prohibitions on food imports from the european union and the us . over the last decade , foreigners have been barred from making investments in more than 40 industries designated as critical to national security ” by the government . this ban , while beneficial by industry insiders , has reduced russia ’s access to financial markets and , more critical , to new technologies that follow financial flows . lifting such restrictions would not only provide the economy with an immediate boost , but also boost long-term gdp growth .
but uk support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to accept the eu ’s long-stated goal of “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty , made no secret of their desire to use widening eu membership to prevent deepening european integration . the relationship between cee countries and the uk has always been slightly fraught . during discussions with eu leaders ahead of the referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clause in the decision to move toward an ever-closer union . should he prevail in the referendum , and persuade voters to remain , it would send a dangerous signal to the illiberal politicians of eastern europe . in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership at a time when leaders in france and germany remain very hesitant about eu enlargement .
and workers of the future will require training in ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . educators are preparing students for this future to start now . business majors should study economic and political history to avoid becoming the blind determinists . economists need to learn from engineering students , because it will be engineers to build a future labor force . and law students should focus on the intersection of big data and human rights , so that they gain the insight needed to defend people from forces that may seek to turn individuals into disposable parts .
sporadic complaints and warnings from above enable them to develop an intuitive sense of the boundaries of acceptable content , which is why they create evidence that are free from offending material from the start . serious breaches can stem from reprimands or dismissals . in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with the writers and producers themselves . in effect , the system has become largely self-regulating . the top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; lower levels have little collaborative input and no right of appeal .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe has decided to expand the diet ’s current session for 95 days , until september 27 , making it the longest continuous session in japan ’s postwar history . the reason is clear : abe is determined to pass a set of national security bills allowing a reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution , which enables the country to play a greater role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s actions in the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g-7 summit in germany , where he broke with the japanese tradition . for the preceding 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 focused on economic discussions at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , and recommended action or , more often , inaction . but the summit showed that japan no longer wanted to stand on the diplomatic sidelines .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put enlargement on hold until the russian and american presidential elections passed . this visit yielded yet another appeal not to rush nato enlargement . in germany ’s parliament , jacques delors announced that yeltsin after his operation would “ renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … and i have been able to reach agreement with president chirac , president chirac , and prime minister major that the us is now refusing to engage with an important matter of nato-led enlargement in some framework in order to prevent moscow from creating fiat acplcomi . ” in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put enlargement on hold until the russian and american presidential elections passed . this visit yielded another appeal , not to rush nato enlargement .
only this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , the durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases . these changes are also triggering changes in human consciousness . the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values that comprise a stronger emphasis on individual freedom and personal responsibility . in this world without utopia , individual freedom is supreme . but , as with any change of such magnitude , there are holdouts .
london – the gravity of the euro crisis has finally sunk in . the stakes could not be higher . governments and the international financial institutions have scrambled to place a solution within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . so far , many questions have been answered about design ; implementation will be at least as challenging .
washington , dc – while much of the developed world is rightly worried about myriad privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and demanding – and securing , for individuals a “ right to be forgotten , ” many around the world are posing a very different question : what about the right to be seen ? and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the u.s. , and mexico . the swiss implemented methadone programs and , in order to prevent the spread of hiv , created needle exchanges , including in prisons , and established safe injections of rooms on a large scale . the swiss federal institute for public health has also overseen an experiment in prescribing the heroin to people living with opiate dependency for significant periods . the swiss has re-examined their government ’s drug policies with a pragmatic eye . health professionals took the lead in a printing press campaign – through direct democracy mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users toward public-health policies that are based on the scientific evidence of what works .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence will have on the functioning of our economies and labor markets has long been a hot topic . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on markets ’ workings is the ability to earn huge returns in high-speed trading by being a microsecond “ ahead of everyone else . ” but jerry kaplan ’s ’s recent book humans need not apply : a guide to wealth and employment in the age of artificial intelligence impressed me by the true size of our socioeconomic stakes . another is the capacity for price discrimination by the new electronic market makers like uber , which thus fit every penny of old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . soon a new kind of reinforced uber could emerge , integrating automobile , bus , ships , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into one super-app .
in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including differentiating the necessary from the desirable . to that end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping $ 4.5 trillion – lack safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . with a growing share of the world ’s population – including many of the same people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that advance environmental protections , water provision , and health could not be more important . global health and conservation professionals must work more closely together to identify these solutions , and persuade policymakers to pursue them .
this is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model is based on licensing and annual maintenance fees , not electricity usage . indeed , big companies in almost every field are vulnerable , as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and capable , like larger firms , of reaching customers and users everywhere . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , and continually assess how innovations will affect the status quo , specifically their for-profit pools . moreover , disruptive technologies will create a value to shift among economic sectors , as occurred when television overtook radio , or , more recently , when online media acquired predominance over print publication . firms in all sectors now must invest in understanding new technologies to seize opportunities or mount effective defenses quickly .
though the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than it did in 1991 , 209 million fewer were starving . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to set new global targets to meet by 2030 . by 2013 , the share had dropped to 13.5 % . the challenge amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete targets . over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed almost two billion more people adequately – no small feat .
fifteen people were killed and many more injured in what is remembered as the peterloo massacre . in light of the recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite grudgingly agreed to democratizing the reforms . ultimately , the reform act of 1832 abolished the rotten boroughs and extended the franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . the united states , too , went though a period of robin hood baron industrialization in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s . the greed and corruption of that era were satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : the narrative of today .
narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british disease : across the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , lacking a human face , and akin to an uncontrolled runaway train . what makes it so much worse in britain , however , is a series of gross errors of political judgment during and after the 2016 brexit referendum campaign . but , thanks to farage – and the faragism that took over the governing conservative party – the act of economic self-harm that clearly runs counter to national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . while the defeated remain party waged an economic campaign centered on fear of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave side has waged a culture war by exaggerating fears of immigration , and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ” moderate leaders everywhere must now respond not only to the economic discontent of the millions who are losing out , but also to cultural pessimism and dismissal of politicians as being “ in it ” only for themselves ” that gives succor the populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk .
ande proposed the creation of a new court by amending the constitution . it succeeded because of strong public support for the fight against corruption . every firm and business association must decide on the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries . a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many were contradictory and overlapping . every firm and business association must decide the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries .
a year ago , everyone gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what we stood up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , and the dispose of state assets at its will . in evicting that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism is ending . instead , those who benefited from regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the property they stolen were inviolate . so far as formal legal rights have existed , no court could be relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their interests as being challenged . how , then , did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ?
for the children who received atole , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half . moreover , health workers visited mothers during pregnancy , and provided free medical services . one community nearby had the same programs except that micronutrient supplement was provided without the protein . they remained in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive tests in adulthood , and were more likely to be employed in higher-paid , skilled jobs . one community nearby was provided with continuous micronutrient access , and the protein supplement was called atole .
from day day one , the coalition was riven by feuds . ministers behaved like adversaries rather than partners . instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the country , the coalition members blamed each other . such squabbling seems to be a postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three infighting among reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power .
though the us economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike a french brexit , in which it amounts to a firing oneself act in the foot . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not by utopia but by despair . whereas the british have resorted to the ballot box , the french have adopted a mixture of barricades , marches , and stone trump . they have joined well-organized trade unions , which have helped the movement reach critical mass , at least temporarily .
what strikes me the most is that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts , and a looming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . she worries about early human-rights violations , particularly women ’s rights , which she fears will multiply . and she has no doubt that the west , in responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , has avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . she senses that , in acting as she operates , she was faithful to her most cherished values and convictions . she remembers anything , and regrets nothing .
facing escalating geopolitical competition with the us , china is scrambling to win friends in the region . though china ’s charm offensive is very recent , its contours are already clear . the most prominent feature is trade . as numerous asian countries ’ largest trading partner , china will offer attractive terms of trade to its neighbors , much as it did with singapore . over the last six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , embracing the eu ’s containment strategy .
london – “ shorting ” is a tactic well known among a financial cognoscenti . it means betting against an asset , with borrowed money , in the expectation of making a profit when its value goes down . a speculator can “ short a government ” by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later at a lower price and pocketing the difference . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i think to myself that the game will soon be up to the greeks . i borrow , at face value , € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for six months .
in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried the “ character assassination ” ” ” by online news media , demanding that the government establish this unruly new sector ’s regulatory framework . indeed , the absence of constraints allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s diverse tribal composition was reflected in newly established web sites , some of them created with tacit support and even funding – from security agencies or other official or political groups . moreover , many people launched news web sites exclusively for financial gain . taking advantage of news media ’s implicit authority , they published any potentially harmful rumor about individuals or groups with means and influence , then offered to remove the story in exchange for a paid advertisement or direct cash payment .
the poison of terrorism has now ripped into the un ’s humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its headquarters in iraq . other leaders declared that the un should not abandon its mission . yet the bombing raises the political questions that demand answers . dozens of innocent people have been killed , including one of the world ’s most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush reinstated his determination to wage war on terrorism .
to bolster russia ’s political clout over georgian separatist regions , gazprom , without taking the trouble in asking for georgian democratically elected leaders , has begun constructing a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . while there has been no interruption of gas supplies from tbilisi to south ossetia , this step is necessary for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration with this georgian region into russia ’s economic system . but they are truly illegal occupiers , because the decision by russia to give russian passports to such regions ’ ’ ’ residents attests . now russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia , if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . to the extent that most of abkhazia and south ossetia regions have already given russian citizenship , recognizing the two regions ’ sovereignty would be entirely fictitious and actually an interim measure in the path to their full annexation by russia .
back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves into thinking that they could dominate their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s bizarre behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism . sure , trump may well be going a bit too far with the chinese on trade , but at least he has been asking them the right questions . the sad reality is that many of today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history , and think and act as if interests and values are totally disconnected from one another in the real world . so long as trump is good for business , they seem unworried that he is the single greatest threat to america ’s souls and values and its image and interests abroad .
not only will it generate an administrative burden through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many of europe ’s most prominent online companies . even more worryingly , this would open the door for provisions outlawing the benign , low-risk data-mining that drives online advertising . online advertising enables eu citizens to access information , educational material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying for them directly , and the amount spent on it in europe is growing fast . the industry ’s revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as europe ’s overall economy has stagnated . the eu ’s privacy crackdown threatens to undermine all of this .
but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must be broken , so that women and girls can obtain the sanitary products they need at an affordable price . a joint soas-oxford study , for example , on menstruation in uganda , found that adolescent girls often miss a school because they lack access to clean sanitary products . but when reusable sanitary pads and education for menstruation were provided to girls in eight schools , attendance rose by an average of 17 % . today , bloodstained good period donates sanitary products , including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers every month . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic .
for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike down the law , rendering an effort meaningless . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step to break the impasse . he already backed off twice : once in july 2012 , when he abandoned his effort , under pressure from the supreme people ’s council , to reinstate the elected parliament ; and once he sought to remove a public prosecutor by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . but , for many revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack a tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . a new law regulating the judiciary , for example , has been a demand for the revolution since its early weeks .
its nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear facilities that would deliver the submarine a nuclear bomb equivalent in power to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 . in foreign policy , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the revival of the monroe doctrine – the nineteenth-century assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere that seeks to keep its european competitors , central and south america , in order to curb china ’s growing influence . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 has not been shared south of the border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine “ served to justify gringo intervention , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us . moreover , it amounts to betraying a longstanding american commitment to discrediting a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy .
policymakers in advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on the underlying failures that destabilize their economies and hinder growth , rather than try to cure the symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . at the same time , the governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective problems related to macroeconomic-policy spillovers and in providing insurance against crises . in other emerging markets , too , the key challenge is ensuring that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such arrangements will prove futile in managing capital flows .
the result was surplus labor conditions in the middle – and lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar to surplus labor in early-stage developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( for a while ) even as the economy expands . the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector directly , but also in the non-tradable service sectors , owing to the spillover from displaced labor . a decline in labor bargaining power and falling real minimum wages may also have contributed to income polarization , though these are probably secondary factors . though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , american leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , far less implementing effective countermeasures . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle classes are largely the result of two factors : white ’s rapid loss – and the blue-collar routine job of automation and the shift of middle and lower-value-added employment to countries with lower labor costs .
zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming change in leadership at the institution , with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 , presumably succeeded mario draghi as president , provides an important opportunity to heed that call . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
such scenarios were unimaginable until only recently . one factor is the willingness and ability of vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda . for decades , europe constituted the world ’s most prosperous , stable , and predictable region , a place where history seemed to have all but ended . the goal of making a continent peaceful , whole , and free has largely been realized . but dramatic change has come to europe .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . for example , construction is nearly complete on a railway line through kenya ’s famous nairobi national park , despite public outrage over “ incomplete and incompetent ” environmental impact assessment . batang toru is just one of many planned infrastructure projects worldwide that are officially deemed environmentally sound , despite posing serious environmental risks .
for the ecb , this generates a particularly serious challenge . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereigns ’ national governments , with little to no structural , or fiscal-policy coordination . in many ways , these measures have succeeded : monetary expansion has played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , the capacity of central banks to affect the real economy has declined . today – and for the foreseeable future – domestic inflation is increasingly subject to global repercussions rather than local , trend , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy are far more influential than monetary policy .
beijing is roughly 10 ° c hotter than nearby countryside in the daytime , and 5.5 ° c hotter at night . there is an even more dramatic increase in tokyo , and there is an even more dramatic increase . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , we can see the real effect of a urban heat island . in august , the temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above the surrounding countryside , reaching 40oc – a scorching heat that has affected not only the downtown area , but also covered some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the fastest-growing cities are in asia .
a growing minority started to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . gyms became new sources of community ; by the end of the twentieth century , gyms had become new sources of community . and as coworkers began to exercise together , enlightened employers came to view such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental wellbeing . some people saw these changes happening , and worried about them . the swedish brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – often conspicuous consumption .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on proposed quotas . some , such as the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to flee the euro , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s ’s refugee displacement scheme has proved to be particularly divisive . according to the european council on foreign relations , there are 32 referenda in 18 countries across the eu .
but american exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . from the start of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has been inadequate . he has said repeatedly that exports are good for the us : they create jobs . he needs to remind americans that imports are also good : he surely can ask his audience to think about jobs in ups cargo planes , freight trains , and trucks that conduct imports into the american interior . the main problem , however , is that obama has been unable to confront and put to rest , america ’s labor unions , which have been fostering hostility to trade .
usury ( making money from money ) was an offense against god . it was not until the eighteenth-century century that greed became morally respectable . this inspired the american way of life , where money always speaks . it was now deemed healthily promethean to turn wealth into money and put it to work to make more money , because by doing this one was benefiting humankind . the end of capitalism implies simply the urge to listen .
instead of focusing on treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to the long-term rehabilitation centers located in depths of rural areas , which have little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments , too , have opted to imprison drug users . poland also chooses to treat possession of even the smallest number of drugs as criminal , as evidenced by the fact that 60 % of people sentenced for drug possession in poland are marijuana smokers . addressing drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand ; but usage rates have failed to decline . by driving users underground , criminalization is contributing to a deepening public-health crisis .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key interest rates have remained close to zero for six years now . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of such a policy are becoming increasingly apparent – and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , and the central bank , with its central bank , is the world ’s largest .
in the indian ocean , nato operates with the european union and many others to police major sea lanes threatened by pirates . nato is developing a ballistic-missile-defense capability in order to protect our european populations and territory against a grave and growing threat . the threats have changed and become more global . the alliance has evolved into true security-governance organizations that are flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . and , in countries around the world , it is carrying out tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising how to bring military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children .
meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock by betting on the resuscitation of the dying – and deadly – fossil-fuel industry . china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel companies has left it in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out . describing a shift to electric vehicles as a job killer , trump has advocated ending federal subsidies that stimulate domestic development , manufacture and purchase , such as the $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit . to promote sales , purchaser is exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – $ 10,000 per vehicle ) . and , anticipating the eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are providing generous subsidies to domestic production .
moreover , the tax would probably have regressive distributional consequences , hurting the poor countries the most . it would , for example , necessitate the fiscal equivalent of the regulatory ceilings . the measure can also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary actions , making it somewhat perilous . but calculating a appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice . assuming that it is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global welfare and be compatible with world trade organization rules .
eurozone countries , together with others willing to join the euro in the future ( the “ eurozone plus ” ) , could simply decide to use legal means already available to enhance cooperation . ideally , such cooperation would occur within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the eu treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to support their action.the extent of this provision , which says that , “ the [ european ] council … takes measures specific to [ europe ’s ] member states , ” and that “ only [ europe ’s ] member states … take part in the vote ” – is wide . moreover , article 138 would allow europe ’s unified representation on the international monetary fund and the world bank . the group could then expand cooperation to three other policy areas :
for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland 's islamic cultural center countered that circumcision is a part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to “ contravention [ a ] religious freedom . ” and agnes ahmad seddeeq , iceland ’s bishop , have warned that the ban would effectively turn judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” because anyone practicing circumcision might be subject to six years in prison . complicating matters further , both sides base their arguments on human rights . for example , some ban ’s supporters have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that “ no one is subjected to torture , or to cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ” gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ all have a right to believe in what they want , ” but insists that “ the rights of children come above the right to believe .
they should also pay attention to mechanisms of entanglement and norms . entanglement can alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly linked to the global economy . to be sure , entering any adversary ’s network and disrupting attacks poses a danger of escalation . “ persistent engagement ” can nonetheless support aid deterrence in such difficult situations . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classic instruments of nuclear deterrence – sanctions and denial , because they judge the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace .
here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and strengthening governance among the eurozone ’s member states . but more will be needed to restore financial stability , such as the enlarging the european financial stability facility ’s total firepower . confirmation of a stricter and more rigorous stability pact is also the imperative to achieve greater integration . moreover , if the eu wants the eu to emerge strengthened from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , without growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s problems can not be resolved . more importantly , the eu must tie its economic strategies to its long-term competitiveness , ultimately determined by the value added in goods and services .
shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises . the financial stability board has estimated that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 totaled $ 67 trillion , with america accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom accounting for $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion , and it is only about 25 % . ultimately , it finances retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products , and private capital . in 2007 , the volume of united states ’ shadow-banking transactions exceeded that of conventional banking assets .
clearly , the us can not do much to resolve the conflict . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are several factors worth pondering : the escalation of the asymmetrical conflicts , in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent opponents ; and the major political differences between a centrist american president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . but obama himself bears a large part of the blame . in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . in 2011 , he asserted that only both sides ’ willingness to ensure a successful outcome .
with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage is rapidly diminishing . as economists like mit ’s david autor have shown , the impact of this in developed countries can be both bad for some workers and the good for corporate profits . but it can be extraordinarily good for any developing country that fosters a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and that uses export-led growth ’s proceeds to invest in infrastructure and skills . china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without trade originally driven by labor-cost disparities . in the future , however , that type of trade will probably become less important .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging , and what does a lower proportion of working-age people mean for the country ’s economic development ? can – and should – anything be done , especially the country ’s “ one baby ” policy , slowing the trend ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china rely on the country ’s overall fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged for 20 years . but population-survey data published by the national bureau of statistics suggest that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ newly published report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low fertility countries . a prolonged period of low fertility means that china ’s population is aging , and working-age population growth is slowing .
until the currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targeting the inflation rate . but they repeatedly missed their targets . many then switched to inflation targeting ; but they tend to miss those targets even more often than advanced-country countries do . the problem with these monetary-policy approaches to these monetary-policy targeting is that , even though a particular numerical target may be reasonable when it is set , unexpected developments often make the target hard to live with .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign-debt procedures as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization . if you lend to a friend , she would no longer be her friend . the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign insolvency procedures as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization . if the european union ’s national governments want to help one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally provide humanitarian relief , without conditionality and redemption . when you lend to a friend , he would no longer be a friend .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house , describing him as “ respected all over europe . ” trump ’s republican party , for its part , uses similar tactics . evidently , trump and his advisers have learned much from orbán about racist immigration policies and how to destroy a democracy . they are not making america great or even good ; they are making it hungarian .
trump is doing much the same , with the result that the american government now loses some 94 % of its regulatory court cases . by politicizing us administrative agencies , starting to capture the us department of justice , and committing himself to making ideological judicial appointments , trump is now far along in his quest to wreck the rule of law in america . while orbán has used economic pressure to force the closure of hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ the people ’s enemy ” and threatened libel action against critical outlets . making matters worse , orbán has destroyed hungary ’s civil service independence and thoroughly politicized the us administration . at the same time , trump has been hiding some 17,000 public officials by firing american state department employees , shutting down the government , freezing pay off , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open discussion of how to formulate and implement policy .
but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article that the data have been used , and there is no validation of the model . folta offers the brilliant send-up send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast sites in munich , and the program told you that it was squarely in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , this does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right off from florida . ” to decide not to challenge those data , folta continues , and , instead , “ publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data , and claiming millions of rather dry germans , does not mean that you are brilliant . ” instead , it means that you erred , in your program , assumptions , or input data – all of which are testable .
the sum of the headline commitment was impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp . but , in the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state did not consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled for a package of national measures to stabilize the national banking systems one by one . experience has shown that only an acute crisis can compel european leaders to work together in a concerted effort . in other words : europe faces a fundamental collective-action problem .
after the civil war pitting then-west pakistan against the bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan fueled a wave of east pakistan ’s refugees , india began supporting the rebel groups there . a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo has prevailed . the two sides fought again in 1971 , though kashmir was not a focus . west pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became an independent state in bangladesh . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled kargil district .
with the emergence of hiv in the 1980 ’s , which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged and is the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals . roughly 15 million people suffer from co-infection of hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary causative agent in most tb cases . treatment of tb requires a minimum of three drugs administered over at least six months . moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity . whereas pandemics appear suddenly , spread rapidly , and raise tremendous fears of an imminent threat , tb has been spreading slowly but consistently for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities .
continued progress toward a fiscal union would , ironically , make political union increasingly unlikely for one simple but important reason : france . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the westphalian defense treaty . in 2005 , france rejected the proposed european union constitution , which could mark the beginning of the process of political unification . the disadvantages of strengthening european fiscal union further do not end there . europe ’s strongest military power by far , france thwarted all attempts to pool europe with armed force .
the limits of inflation targeting are now clear . central banks now need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with accountability , regardless of whether they are legally mandated , to reduce financial vulnerability . they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal ; for example , it can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting the banks ( at least for a while ) and making a powerful interest in protecting its reputation . this will not be easy , not least because of another new operating burden that has been placed on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , especially , implies the risk of political pressure , central-bank interference with independence , and policy conflict , all of which could influence the behavior of financial intermediaries , by encouraging them to assume greater risks .
in contrast to the developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of large , productive firms . according to standard economic reasoning , this is inherently inefficient . if the small , unproductive firms closed down , and larger , more productive firms hired their workers , total output and well-being would rise . this should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms should be able to deliver a better product at a lower price , luring workers with higher wages . so , why is this happening routinely in the developing world ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has focused on the successor to president jiang zemin . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation , the 1998 appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as the premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . given the post ’s obvious importance in recent years , the choice of mr. zhu ’s replacement may be of even greater significance than president jiang ’s departure from center stage . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , a tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric -- a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence on performance . even before he became premier , mr. zhu , as president of the chinese central bank , was known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and the mastermind of its successful fight against inflation .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . but , partly because several african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors are focusing on business opportunities there . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the largest 11 african economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , with their combined market capitalization soared from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world ’s total ) in late 2009 – as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchange . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stems partly from successful demutualizing their stock exchanges .
some countries do suffer as skilled workers emigrate . but the failure to devise mechanisms that allow migrants to exploit their skills causes even more harm . establishing national , regional , and global standards is not easy . • accelerate eligibility for residency and citizenship . trained doctors should not be driving taxicabs , but absolutely necessary .
contrary to trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to some one-quarter of voters . its coalition of the old french far-right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive unannounced or defy expectations , as has occurred in the us and the united kingdom . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to a large number of french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . fillon , for his part , can probably muster the same level of support , and he may even be able to skim votes from le pen , given that around 8 % of primary voters have described themselves as the national front ’s backers . heading into the election campaign , fillon may run on a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot during the second-round debates , when he suggested that he favors
for years , poles have ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope . generations of poles have participated in the charities of fundraising drives . kaczyński has repeatedly demonstrated his impulsiveness . he pursues power without having considered the consequences of his actions . the state-owned media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as the guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s killing will only undermine pis .
new york – the last fast-food hamburger you ate may have cost you next to nothing . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost a worker there ? almost anywhere in the world – including in the united states – costs can be shockingly high . appalling wages are just the start . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket .
when xi first unveiled his slogan after being chosen as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic terms : the “ chinese people dream of living the same good as all other people in the world . ” whatever the new administration is touted as part of its ambitious effort to compel the “ china dream ” come true . xi has said that little about the dream of china since – and his silence has caused great trouble . china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not showing sufficient loyalty and respect for the new party chief , quickly hijacked the slogan ; the china dream has replaced the “ china model ” in official political branding . unfortunately , china propagandists , who double down on the censors , have a perverse capacity to discredit anything they are trying to label .
in fact , they can not , because human genetic experimentation is impossible . even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own . even in animals whose genes are more readily studied and far better understood , such as drosophila , the miniscule fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between the gene and the behavioral trait . instead , a wide variety of genes influence each characteristic . fruit fly genes are surprisingly similar to ours -- as they are to those of most other creatures .
environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating and corruption is running rampant , with cash from opaque sources flowing into cambodia ’s casinos , its banks , and its real-estate market . gone are the days when strong esg performance was a handsome investor bonus . pension trustees and fund managers now insist that companies in which they invest operate in ethical , transparent ways that constrain reputational risk . investment decisions at emerging-market funds are thus increasingly ahead of rigorous esg screenings , screenings that , after hun sen ’s 34 years dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of passing . cambodia is currently being stripped of its natural resources – including timber , grubber , and sand – for private gain .
in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through a common army failed in 1954 , highlighting that economic common ground was the key to european integration . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellor of exchequer gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered the practical benefits of peace and prosperity to britain . ” while the british were especially open to the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their domestic interests . simply put , talk of “ brexit ” exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines – and there is no return .
quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument for holding its own vis-à-vis the united states . they see even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro is " strong " and the dollar is " weak . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who believe in the values of the enlightenment and the constitution of liberty . the u.s. has found a new " empire of evil " in " terrorist " states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary helping it to integrate in the united states . in terms of fundamental values , there is such a thing as the west .
perhaps he will replace the widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against the pis would be punishment by kaczyński . the most saryusz-wolski can realistically hope for is some sort of government post in poland . he is merely kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” in his effort to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat the pis faces . for his part , the pis may be hoping for is that some sort of coalition of countries ( for example , those ruled by the social democrats ) propose another alternative for tusk , whom eu member states elect to avoid escalation of the conflict with poland .
renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . so the problem lies with the iranians , and they must resolve it . but this time , it is hard to see a way out offering a second referendum . now the eu is once again at the iranian stew .
but experiences around the world suggest that it is a risky outlook . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises . even were banks sound sound , the deleveraging process , and the associated loss of wealth mean that , more likely than not , the economy will be weak . and a weak economy means , more likely than not , more bank losses . there is no limit to the problems facing the us .
nonetheless , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force for un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made it clear that it does not view itself as a military power . for the time being , germany ’s central foreign-policy priorities are likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors – from which immediate security risks are most likely to emanate . german policymakers continue to believe that political and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that account for the activities and possible contributions of non-state actors . this would be a wise choice , at least for now .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity in the decades to come , they will have to find ways to prevent current economic activity from increasing an already unsustainable environmental burden . for that to happen , ecological resources must come to be viewed as valuable endowments that must be managed wisely . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its major assets – a reason that more than 200 million tourists flock to the region every year , feeding the region ’s economies . over-usage , or even failed to manage them carefully , inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength . to be sure , countries with ecological deficits can often fill part of the gap through global trade , if they can pay for needed imports .
ms. park once pledged to provide loans to working-class families from elementary school to university , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy . park ’s success will , after all , depend on the effectiveness of her campaign in further defining her character along those lines . but she must credibly outline a practical strategy to resolve south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , worsening educational performance , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . she favors the politics of engagement , and the six-party talks so much as to resolve the nuclear woes . come presidential election-day in 2012 , south korean voters will elect a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue .
up-front gradualism must be the name . revenues will grow consistently only if the tax base – that is , the economy – grows . and that growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital . a fiscal compact like the one approved recently is helpful to anchor expectations for future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible . and adjustment must be wedded to a growth strategy .
second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s “ mutual assessment process , ” has suggested that the united states is cutting its fiscal deficit at 3 % of gdp more than it envisaged , well over $ 400 billion , in additional cuts per year . more recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that severe fiscal consolidation would generate enough growth in private-sector confidence that gains in spending by households and firms would more than offset lower spending by governments . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will discourage america ’s economic growth . america ’s major trading partners want the american people to grow and buy more of their exports . the oecd , however , has broken up governments not to consolidate too fast in a sluggish global recovery .
indeed , totalitarian pressure was shaped by exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with allusions to and , in the language of , lying humanism . this is why postcommunist societies do not demonize any nobility or disinterestedness that seriously contrasts with the west . i confess to view communism 's legacy with more skepticism . for most people , however , life under totalitarian dictatorships was not ennobling ; it was , rather , a daily immersion in lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption .
when the united nations asked almost ten million people around the world to list their priorities , they emphasized better education and health care , less corruption , more jobs , and affordable food . global warming came last december from just 16 issues , including climate change . the world bank ’s climate focus is also at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . under kim , the bank propagated the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are always harmful , coal must be forbidden , and “ climate aid ” is the solution . the evidence clearly shows that direct policies are far more effective .
trump carries on the paris agreement ’s supposed bias in india ’s favor , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth the american level . consider the most recent figures for 2014 from the international energy agency ’s 2016 energy statistics . the world ’s co2 emissions from energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , while america ’s emissions have almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( and to sneers at the name for some reason ) . he complains that the us has already yielded over $ 1 billion without explaining to the american people , and a world that $ 1 billion is a contribution worth $ 3.08 per american .
sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” un secretary general ban ki-moon can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . what hard power the un has to be pleading and borrowed from member states . as one wag put it , “ we have met the un , and it is us ! ” and when they can not agree on a course of action , it is hard for the organization to operate . true , un secretary general ban ki moon can make speeches , convene meetings , and propose actions , but his role is more secretary than general .
perhaps for this reason , there has been talk of a meeting in astana between the presidents of russia and france , america ’s secretary of state and the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . a meeting of presidents , after all , is the ultimate negotiating forum and must lead to real , sustainable success . otherwise , it will appear that no amount of negotiation can help set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining crucial restraint that prevents both sides from trying again to achieve a military solution . that prospect holds both great opportunities and serious risks . there is a reason that no such meeting has occurred in the g20 years .
governments in brazil and europe are finding themselves in rough , uncharted waters . true , venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party , illegally established a constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the health-care system has collapsed , and violence and contagious diseases are now practically out of control . true , venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party , illegally established constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but venezuela is not just a political issue ; it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions .
similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts on twitter , and his much older counterparts in rajasthan and kerala , ashok gek gehlot and oommen chandy , respectively , have opened facebook ’s accounts as well . but the pace at which the political world embraces social media has accelerated dramatically in the last year . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale embrace of twitter , modi ’s ’s youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts on twitter , and its much older counterparts in rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot , and oommen chandy , respectively , have opened facebook ’s accounts as well . a day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced that he would open facebook to receive and respond to public questions . chief minister of northwestern bengal ’s mamata banerjee runs a popular and widely read web site that the traditional media outlets mine daily .
related to this is the fact that nowadays , economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the adverse effects of those financial speculations boosted by globalization . so , in agreeing to open regional economies toward imports , the poor and developing countries must be permitted to protect their new industries . so long as a country is subordinated to globalization ’s uncontrollable force , its future lies in foreign hands . so the world needs , within its regions , to facilitate integration based on widespread economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared regulatory rules , and most of all common will to fix the rules of the game according to a region ’s entire interests . but , in agreeing to open regional economies toward imports , the poor and developing countries must be permitted to find some means of protecting their new industries .
when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted with arms paid for with borrowed money . is it fair to expect egyptians to continue to pay for their previous repression and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his henchmen ? the type of regime mubarak was running for many years . a prudent lender was supposed to consider these realities before making loans . because this money clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not be mubarak rather than his victims , who are held to account ?
claims of alternative strategies must therefore be set at somewhat lower levels – say , an initial exchange rate that might have been chosen to make east germany a low-wage country . even that is a dream since , in the face of high unemployment , east german wages increased substantially every year relative to west germany . perhaps those are ideas of en vogue in korea , as one thinks of potential reunification , but even hard to accomplish when the time comes . at a more depreciated conversion rate , which we would simply experience more rapid declines in wage inflation . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would foresee the failure of the experiment before embarking upon it .
public investment is high enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already overleveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not safe . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . new firms in the service sector , with 3.6 million of which began just last year , are generating incremental employment , thanks partly to a new streamlined licensing framework .
the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market . hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively trying to divide and weaken the eu and nato . but it is also necessary that the eu itself develop a more comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law within the union . if europe is to face down aggression from the kremlin , it is critical that poland and hungary adhere to these groups ’ fundamental values and principles . it would have been unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june if poland remains mired in its constitutional crisis , with the government disregarding the rule of law , and the opinion of a respected international body .
the vast majority of those researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for its inclusion in climate-policy debates , are also supporting much stronger action to reduce emissions . still , big fossil – from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions – will ultimately use discussion of geoengineering to fight emissions restrictions . with good reason , many fear that fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but that risk is not enough to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering . but most researchers are not driven by such interests .
in order to achieve this , the us would have to subordinate its power to the goal of shaping the new order , much as it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 . it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago , left its own trojan horse for america , the poisoned gift of unilateralism . instead , america has succumbed to the temptation of unilateralism . national greatness to a world power always arises from its capacity to shape the world . if a great power forgets this or lose the ability to act accordingly , it begins to decline .
for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry needs to get on board . this means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to support national agendas for development and diversification . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum corporation , will take part in barkindo , along with numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders , is an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . the industrialized economies , for their part , must do more to support african oil industries and ensure that the adverse effects of their oil production are mitigated . working with other stakeholders , campaigners for sustainable and just transition can also achieve something more : allowing carbon-dioxide energy to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only the negative impact of twentieth-century oil-backed development .
economic development in the gaza strip has been limited under egyptian rule , and the region has suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in southern palestine to become israel later . palestinians ’ access to egypt has been restricted , with much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor dependent on the un relief works administration , which is building and maintaining local refugee camps . nevertheless , though one-third of the west bank has been closed to palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its largely rural population is refugees , many owned their land , and a wide variety of jobs are available . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s residents comprised refugees , living in difficult conditions in the scores of refugee camps , and were largely dependent on work in israel . the 1967 war placed all mandatory palestine ( as well as sinai and golan ) under israeli military occupation .
after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him kindly because “ i propose writing that history . ” when the financial crisis erupted , the same thought may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , chair of the us federal reserve bank of england , and president of the new york fed , respectively . all three published lengthy memoirs explain why they did , and did not , do what they did and did not do not do – unavoidably , with a degree of self-justification in each case . now , a decade later , the three of them each co-authored what might be described as version of the 2.1 of that episode ’s history . a second draft of history is often written by the key people themselves .
moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – the replacement of old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones , they expedited this process . for example , in the 1980s , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms were spurred partly by growth in the non-farm sector , a result of policies aimed at stimulating township activities and village enterprises . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) ’ chronic loss-making and excess wealth investment , respectively – by implementing institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby offsetting soes ’ ’ ’ falling return on capital . the goal was not to tackle the problems they faced directly , but to induce new , more efficient activities that can help turn debt into assets and maximize usage of the economy ’s capacity . in this sense , east asian economies embraced the process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby an economic architecture is continually revolutionized from within .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdowns in tibet and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustice of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely stirred a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . that neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove dangerous . this seeming double standard can be explained in part by a sense of guilt : the west has , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s independence in the effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . similarly , much of the world is protesting in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . taiwan , by contrast , does not capture our attention because it is stable and flourishing economically .
whatever the option , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : reducing the power bestowed in the uk on non-elected special advisers , or spads on which the uk has become dominant figures in all departments of government . during my 17-month experience as minister , i became convinced that the spads ’ excessive power – and haughty approach – are undermining the uk ’s excellent civil service , as well as its elected and appointed ministers . may ’s two leading spads , fiona hill , and nick timothy geithner , have taken this danger to worrying levels . many are now eagerly offering their views as to whether the uk should look again at the “ norway model ” of relations with the eu , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market .
an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production . indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials are currently known to present human health risks . while attempting to halt the development of nanomaterial-inspired technologies would be as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , the responsible development of such technologies demands vigilance and social commitment . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production . it would be naïve to imagine that nanotechnology will evolve without risks to our health and environment .
globally , human trafficking generates average annual gains of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced sexual exploitation . today , almost 4.5 billion people have internet access , and around one in three internet users is under the age of 18 . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to make child sex trafficking even more lucrative , the world must take urgent , coordinated action to fight this appalling crime . would-be traffickers need only a laptop or a smartphone with a high-speed internet connection to go to business . thus , the unregulated online world is fertile ground for reaping tremendous gains from child sex trafficking .
the euro has experienced a hard but promising start . it should not come as a surprise that the euro started to slide against the dollar , contemplating the divergence in economic performance between america and europe . and it should not come as a surprise that markets have tested europe ’s political leaders ’ willingness to keep quiet where monetary affairs are concerned . recent us interventions and support from america and japan have shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets believe its success . we all owe them to this , and we all owe it .
now that internet fever has abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but this view is as much a half-truth to the previous notion that the boom would last forever , because the internet economy was shaped by new fundamentals . what should now be clear is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given . indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle brings into question prevailing economic theories about financial markets . people learned that it pays to buy dips and were not weaned on habit until it ceased to pay .
palo alto – since the evolution of the sixteenth-century science of toxicology , its guiding principle has been that “ a dose makes the poison . ” it is a rule that applies to the medicines used by patients worldwide with many billions of times a day . the principle even applies to foods : large amounts of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that a substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its inherent capacity to cause harm and one ’s exposure to it . the right dose of aspirin can be a therapeutic godsend , but it consumes too much can be lethal .
the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( east ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( west ) . given libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan has not fully joined the revolution . but libya is not the only country that has struggled to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully passed more complicated trials , offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions .
giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail too big stimulus . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also emphasize a crucial question : how does quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has presented qe as a pure monetary policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of needed and desirable fiscal consolidation . they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very long-term public debt , all of which the ecb should buy .
but s & p ’s assessment of the political situation is on target : by creating dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of government , the tea party has shown that it is willing to impose a dramatic cost on the broader economy , and to ensure substantially slower growth . and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier . confrontation and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics , even as america ’s legal capacity to service its debts lies on the line , owing to the tea party ’s underlying ideological rigidity . standard & poor ’s has received some justified criticism for the analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade american government debt ; after all , there has been little economic news that could explain the move ’s timing . never mind that eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan ’s budget plan are entirely implausible ; such projections matter politically , because , without them , the full sting of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would readily apparent .
trump , for his part , accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . understanding between xi and trump reflected a sober acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries face . on trade , trump and xi agreed on a 100-day plan for discussions about reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . both seemed to recognize that a stable us-china relationship was necessary to allow them to focus on their respective challenges . moreover , the us accepted china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating a us-china comprehensive dialogue consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law-enforcement and cybersecurity , and social and cultural issues .
the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military services for adult males . and kuwait is considering following in jordan ’s footsteps by reintroducing conscription , which is already in place in most sunni states ( and iran ) . against this backdrop , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , for example , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though no doubt important , should not take priority over a strategy to address sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy must center on federalism . had federalism was introduced in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift emerged , it probably would not have ended up being a failed state .
netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for the fears and complexes of a wide range of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers . the israeli right ’s current political dominance is fed by a widespread yearning for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of arabs , and uncompromising mistrust of a “ world ” ” ” the so-called international community with which jews have a centuries-old dispute . the left ’s yearning for peace is perceived as naive , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . the left has failed to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly political ; they are an expression of the ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . israeli elections are in some ways a tribal affair ; people vote on the basis of memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances .
women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , to the benefit of individual women , their communities , and societies , and to the global economy . according to mgi research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years , as health-care and education needs grow . furthermore , among the new jobs being created will be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . but there is little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their skills , so that they can reap the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . it is not yet clear how automation will affect women ’s employment .
russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural region , caucasus , and central asia , and brutally repressed any backlash . indeed , russia ’s contacts with the muslim world go back thousands of years , and was rooted in a tradition of tolerance . after loyalty was secured , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . with a few short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial government failed to foster orthodox evangelism . until june 19 , sedentary muslim elites co-opted the imperial aristocracy , just as national communist elites were absorbed into the soviet nomenclatura .
the trigger was a proposed extradition law , which many feared would expand the mainland ’s reach into hong kong ’s judicial system . the absence of any plan to bring various protest groups together , and hong kong ’s government , has become a source of growing concern . such a plan would have to do at least two things . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of largely peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) .
to address this distortion head on , and to provide clarity on the allocation of money , the egf should concentrate its limited funds on two simple , active labor market programs : wage insurance and a allowance for mobility . wage insurance could offer workers whose pay has been cut after displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to half the difference between old and new pay . a allowance for mobility could offer those moving for a new job a lump-sum payment of two months of gross pay in earlier work , or four months of ’ pay for cross-border moves . the very simplicity of this scheme will likely ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . the downside of such a focused approach is also clear : the margin of choice for eu members about how egf money is to be spent in their home countries would be minimal .
but kharas ’s projections suggest that asia will account for two-thirds of the world ’s middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not just the west , but even other emerging regions . of course , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only kind of change that we should expect . of course , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change we should expect . asia ’s share was 28 % ( after including japan ) , and its share was 28 % .
some , such as france ’s national front , oppose their countries ’ membership in the eurozone ; others , such as podemos in spain , do not . a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with financial and political turmoil within greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration , particularly after the laborious efforts made to hold the monetary union together , and with it the european dream . such an outcome would be an even more disheartening in view of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and following unity marches in france and across the continent , rekindled a long-simmering sense of european solidarity . populist parties , both on the far right and the far left , are gaining electoral traction . but the challenge that these new parties pose to europe could prove extremely disruptive .
european governments are only now reluctantly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s overall sphere of influence by pushing other powers into separate arrangements . but , while deliberation takes hold on how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , there is little vision beyond this . european governments are reiterating the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but seem to have little comprehensive strategy for translating this into a coherent policy . indeed , when europeans think of reforming global governance , they restrict themselves to numbers of seats and voting weights in international bodies . taken together , all of these shortcomings cast grave doubts on the eu ’s claim to be at the forefront of the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance .
são paulo – a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies of the 1980s and the 1990s is approaching conclusion . in december , lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify the settlement reached with the banks . if a court approves the deal , settlements would put billions of reals in the pockets of savers . but , more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark brazil ’s seemingly endless war on hyperinflation . in december , lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify the settlement reached with the bank .
these barriers have had a dramatic impact on social and economic progress . today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industries . but this has not translated into greater scrutiny of finance . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility all conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm finance . one measure of this deficiency is rates of borrowing ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less farm-related money than men do .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's picking , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive legislation – including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” – as a display of resoluteness .
one solution is to channel part of the liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little attention : they lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , which cause relative decline in demand for labor . this is very likely to aggravate the unemployment problem ; it certainly does not be mitigating it . thus , for every $ 100 of the new liquidity , the us could use $ 60 in purchasing assets and the remainder to give firms a marginal job-creation subsidy , which could be especially efficient in economies with flexible labor markets that allow short-term hiring . even if the employment subsidy were offered only for , say , one year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this period .
the seed treaty is cut from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it also mirrors a flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering protocol to the cbd . it is overwrought , confusing , and complex – in short , inimical to innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor . and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on accountability and redress to the cartagena protocol , yet another screed anti-genetic-engineering protocol , which accomplishes little except frighten potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that the experience of countries that implemented the treaty has not been particularly positive unless those countries enjoy the high tolerance of bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations .
“ there is , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s globalization debates , “ a certain situation of capitalistically disorganized economies in which the bigger cultures are not victorious but rather loses in an existential struggle with lower cultures . ” when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did in the interwar period – the anti-international right moved to fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . for much of post-1945 recessions , these divisions vanished as right and left fought battles over redistribution within national economies . in the center – beleaguered by the anti-global reactions of the left and the right – a liberal commercial elite saw the products of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial . instead of a two part of the divide between left and right , there was thus a triple divide , between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists .
as a witness and participant in tiananmen events , and , as someone with access to an historical archive , i felt it my duty to publicize this record of decisions that lay behind what happened . but the veil that exists over how that omnipotent party makes important decisions is being lifted somewhat because the volume of unique material about the behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen square massacre of 1989 is to be published this month . the materials contained in that book , which i brought out of china and decided to make public , consist of hundreds of papers , including the minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the people ’s republic deliberated on how to handle the tienanmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; and dispatches from the police and the military . taken as a whole , such documents provide a rare glimpse into china ’s leaders ’ modus operandi . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is proverbial .
in the 1970s , for example , slovakia , like other communist states , was dresden , repressive , joyless , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , creativity was stifled under a blanket of enforced conformism . rock and roll was regarded as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . a local rock band named plastic people of the universe performing in english was arrested in the late 1970s for “ organized disturbance of the peace . ” recordings by the rolling stones and other western groups were banned . and yet the records were smuggled through slovakia and other eastern european countries , where they were treasured by young rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the country ’s president .
there is , of course , an appealing logic to saying that governments should have to balance their budgets just like the rest of the us ; unfortunately , it is not so simple . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the fed ’s massive adjustment costs in debt finance . governments typically have myriad ongoing spending commitments related to basic services like national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention pensioners . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece face massive social and economic displacement when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows abruptly dry . no government can only go away from these responsibilities overnight .
president hosni mubarak of egypt argues that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan has coined the axiom about a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of palestine ” and the resulting “ sunni shia divide ” is alleged to be creating an ever widening chasm in the region . ironically , this perception brings israel some rather unlikely partners . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the chaos . while this perception may be persuaded at first glance , it ultimately relies on generalizations , revealing more about its advocates than actual realities on the ground .
as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still supply 85 % of primary energy by 2040 , down only slightly from 90 % today . making matters worse , the consultancy wood mcackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . firms can not keep producing oil , gas , and internal combustion engines while gradually shifting to cleaner technologies ; they need a clean break . it does not help that the financial institutions in china have funneled at least $ 1 billion into “ green ” financing to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . to complete the transition away from fossil fuels will require drilling to the global economy ’s core .
furthermore , with american support , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to the modernization of military facilities and doctrine , increased soldiers , and improved training . as a result , armed conflict is becoming increasingly costly for insurgents . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle in norway and cuba . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without endless discussion of theoretical or doctrinaire questions . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on the government , today ’s ’s ’s environment favors the state , forcing the rebels to keep their demands realistic .
yes , this is a volatile data series , because it rises and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama set the bar high during his two terms . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact , as does trade relations with china and other major american partners . the administration has imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines ; but those are small relative to an economy ’s size . the most positive one to be said of trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade .
but southeast asians are not immune to this kind of nonsense . all of these books are variations in the protocols of the elders of zion , a russian forgery first published in 1903 , which japan came across after defeating the tsar ’s army in 1905 . the chinese have picked up many modern western visions of the japanese . perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories were passed on as well . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , said that “ jews rule the world by proxy . ”
it needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . those running a strong contingency financing mechanism will have to be strongly accountable . they will have to respond to a strong european parliament . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts because they know that it is they who will be bailing out bailing in the eu . they oppose anything that the european political integration smacks of .
new york – striving to revive the global economy while responding in parallel to the global climate crisis has raised a knotty question : are statistics giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? when we have poor measures , what we strive to do ( say , increasing gdp ) may actually contribute to deteriorating living standards . by contrast , a better measure of economic performance might show that steps taken to improve the environment are good for the economy . we may also be confronted with false choices , seeing trade-offs between output and environmental protection that do not exist . in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on increased prominence : what we measure affects what we do .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : what is money ? how do i know that i can trust that it is worth what it says it is worth ? we learn in the introductory economics that money is a medium of exchange . but why do we accept that ? banknotes are just a pieces of paper with a number attached to them .
with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and its national governments ’ capacity to maintain order and the rule of law , that time is now . of course , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeal . when it was first created in 1985 , schengen ’s schengen area included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) . membership has since ballooned to cover 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries , with four of those left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) owing to joining the future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , italy , and liechtenstein ) . but sometimes sacred cows need to be slaughtered , and we are not .
he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he also realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick to their sphere of activity and leave politics to him . no doubt , putin is probably behaving like a peacemaker . but the problem will not go away .
trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars in the streets of new york pose an existential threat to us national security . the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the united kingdom creates an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” ” democrats , such as hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , to build more walls ( physically as metaphorically ) , and to mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . though the world ’s attention nowadays is set on the risks of the escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . things could get very nasty , very fast . moreover , europe ’s external environment has become more dangerous .
a bank with thin margins and limited liability has little to lose , and will tend to gamble – a tendency that is aggravated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies . the result will be more incentives to assume risk . indeed , increasingly competitive pressure may increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , making investors more prone to panics . it may also erode the charter of institutions ’ value . the result will be more incentives to assume risk .
most live in poor and remote communities that still lack access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . vaccines have already eradicated smallpox and have dramatically reduced child deaths and diseases associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus . yet , sadly , a child still dies every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia , which can be avoided with a vaccine . fortunately , the world is taking action . this is one of the reasons why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a child born in a low-income country to die before reaching the age of five .
and because the child believes that everyone operates under his particular definitions of right and wrong , one can not comprehend that someone else may see things differently . to a child ’s mind , he is not wrong ; the world is simply misinformed . as the pioneering child psychologist jean piaget has shown , the children in the early stages of development go through a phase of egocentrism : they naturally focus on their own needs and do not reflect the rules . rather than admit to breaking the rules , they lie in reconciling inconsistency . a child may snatch another child ’s toy , breaking it , and then deny that she has done so .
its greatest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is just stunning . it is this difference , more than anything else , that sets both economies apart . over the last five years , china has multiplied its interstate highway system five-fold . if your products can not reach the global economy , you can not conquer it . what can india do to close the gap ?
in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are making willing prey to those who feel ignored . but because those politicians are so appealing to so many , no less than easily swayed voters must be scrutinized . there are two types of populists today : exploitative and enlightened . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” fake news , ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public debate . the question is whether a brand of politics that threatens liberal democracy can also be reformulated to save it .
a last feature that runs out during this period of historically slow productivity growth is weak demand . across industries , the slow-moving demand recovery following the financial crisis was a key driver of back investment . the crisis heightened uncertainty about the future direction in consumer and investment demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical to investment . for example , mgi ’s survey conducted last year found that 47 % of firms increasing their investment budgets were doing so because of increased demand or demand expectations .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from the usual rules of market-based economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . the french are not concerned that they have never been able to articulate their vision for a “ third way , ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets to defend “ higher ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , propagated since world war ii by the quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to comprehend how markets operate . they seem to view economics as an ideological battleground , where all views can be entertained without being confronted with logic , much less with facts . yet facts have been hit hard , and , so far , too , they say .
health care and social security already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to more than double by 2040 . avoiding that outcome will require american political leaders to constrain entitlement spending growth and bolster support for middle-income individuals . while social security and medicare remain important to ensure wellbeing in retirement , their roles must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that no one who has worked for 30 or more years is living in poverty in old age , social security needs a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less growth in benefits over time . with no change in course , programs like the “ trust fund ” balances will be depleted by the 2030s .
new york -- president george w. bush has rightly called pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections “ a victory for [ its ] people . ” but , even as he has uttered those words , his administration has been working behind the scenes to subvert pakistan ’s people ’s will by trying to dictate the composition of their next coalition government and prop up the election ’s greatest loser , president pervez musharraf . millions of pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls , and there are questions about the situation . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists in favor of democracy and good governance . bush plays a dangerous game , risking the collapse of pakistan ’s political process to its own legacy .
it evades the immune system , which is why the body ’s natural ability to fight or clear it is limited . moreover , long-term treatments are not the same thing as a cure , and no public-health tool ( other than clean drinking water ) has ever matched the preventive power of a vaccine . hiv is an extremely complex virus , and it is a leading virus ; it is a . it mutates quickly within individual and among geographic locations , establishing internet-within latent reservoirs that enable it to emerge and replicate months , or even years , later . three of hiv-positive people still do not receive antiretroviral therapy ; they are not .
similarly , the universities that employ them should leave product developments to existing companies . during the late 19 th century , for example , as america 's universities began to place research at the heart of an academic mission , they were accused of forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . many professors argued that research demands would render their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill . according to this argument , academic researchers should either publish their research openly or abandon their university before pursuing commercial interests . but it is useful to remember that the university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and social role since the time immemorial , yet what in the past initially looked to many like a conflict of interest often later came to be viewed as a confluence of purposes .
brussels – throughout the crisis period , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned on tension between what it can do and what it is allowed to do . the ecb is the only institution in the european union to provide unlimited financing to governments , but its governing statute prohibits government bailouts . but the ecb has provided large amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening the pressure on the refinancing of government debt . for 18 months , it has been buying government bonds – worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) – on secondary markets under its securities market program . moreover , it has lending to the banking sector , recently launching the three-year refinancing operation that generated € 489 billion in demand .
america ’s economy was supercharged with excessive leveraging over-leveraging ; now comes the painful deleveraging process . america would face these problems , even if it were not simultaneously facing a financial crisis . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze . the bush administration did not see the problems coming , denied that they were problems when they came , then minimized significance , and , finally , panicked . after all , when banks do n’t know their own balance sheets , they are n’t about to trust others ’ ’ ’ lessons .
aware of these benefits , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority – to improve inclusivity – is already underway . for example , the government is currently working to encourage instruction in more local languages , more than 100 are spoken in myanmar – in rural areas . vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their education systems within a generation . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho noted during his visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time ; but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge-driven economy .
but what if economists ’ compensation assumed in theory does not happen in practice ? instead , policies that intensify competition , whether in trade , labor markets , or domestic production , can be socially destructive and politically explosive . this highlights yet another reason for economic policy failure since 2007 . what if market-fundamentalist politics specifically forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that could compensate those who suffer from free trade and labor-market flexibility ” ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal .
madrid – economic globalization , together with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has made developing countries , with many companies within them , key global economic actors . but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china is now flowing in not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” f-di-exporting states . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework to protect foreign investment . these changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime , and should broaden interest in developing a more effective investment-protection framework . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment has flowed from just a few sources : the traditionally affluent states of europe , north america , and japan .
worries about globalization and the computer revolution ultimately boil down to the same thing , because globalization is mostly a consequence of new information technology . computers and the internet have made information almost costlessly , and are doing business across cultures and continents . the worry is that information technology is now on the bend of the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will suddenly take off at a far greater speed than before . the resulting changes will not all be welcome in economic terms . hockey stick curves , it seems , often come up in nature .
copenhagen – amid increasing waves of concern about climate change , many countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members – passed laws in the 2000 ’s outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs . many contend that the agenda is being driven by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . the intention was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions . but it is worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest ways to tackle global warming . the republicans ’ current attempt in the us congress to roll back america ’s effort to ban incandescent bulbs has revived this discussion .
the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that trade gains from latin america ’s 33 small regional trade deals have been meager . the key to boosting those gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and within markets . this approach limits the gains from trade . after all , it is this approach that would allow uk firms to position themselves in well-developed and integrated supply chains , serving a much larger market than those that a bilateral deal provides is the best way forward . this suggests that for the uk , a mega-regional trade deal that offers access to multiple markets but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu is the best way forward .
for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the levels needed to restore and sustain growth , partly owing to fiscal constraints in overly leveraged countries . by contrast , income inequality , which is not too extreme and that does not arise from corruption or privileged access to markets , is both understood and accepted . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as crucial in terms of equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . against that backdrop , one can assess current growth patterns in the global economy and its diverse parts . growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on the loss of political and social cohesion , and , ultimately , the strategy ’s loss of support .
for starters , it is important to recognize that the line needs to be clearly visible before even extremist parties arise . one criterion that seems universally accepted is the party ’s use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence – as was evidently the case with golden dawn of the role of attacks on migrants in athens . there is less consensus about parties that incite hatred , and that are committed to destroying core democratic principles , especially because many of europe ’s extremist parties go out of their way to emphasize that they are not against democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ the people . ” if the rule of law is to be put on hold , democratic self-defense must not appear ad hoc or arbitrary . thus , the criteria of prohibitions should be spelled out in advance .
the second part of this argument – that the interests of ordinary people have been subordinated to those of the elite – must be heard and responded to it . a democracy in which a majority feels neglected or exploited is not sustainable . clearly , elected officials need to find answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . for them , patriotism implies being harder-headed about protecting the national interest and embracing more democratic policies that help the working masses , not jet-setting fat cats . either the government or the entire system will be overturned .
finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the dollar was only 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 , well below the double-digit declines of the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . so , on an overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to the currencies that it competes . more important , wealth , and consumption in china are closely related to real-estate values , rather than to equity values . while official us data show overall import prices of 11 % against the 12 months through august , this is almost entirely due to lower energy costs . even more pertinent , the renminbi ’s decline and other currencies over the last year has had very little impact on us import prices , because the chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars and do not adjust when exchange-rate changes change .
many developing countries spend a lot of time in a stable , no-growth equilibrium , and then a shift to a more positive one . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer because these countries ’ more missing components of recovery exist . so , while we can expect to see a multi-year process of rebalancing and close the gap between actual and potential growth , exactly how long it takes depends on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment . in all of the cases in which i am familiar , effective leadership has been the catalyst . there is nothing automatic about that , and it is true that there is an economic catalyst .
but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with its trade deficit forecast to exceed $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . belarus can not borrow enough to cover this . finally , the eu should work to meddle in belarus . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka lays the basis for rapid development once he disappears . like spain in its dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely .
south koreans , for example , now enjoy a standard of living similar to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea as an “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling . at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have grown significantly since 2005 , while mexico ’s output has been slightly disappointing , and egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s even more so . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people , and its current nominal gdp is around $ 6.5 trillion . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s levels of wealth have not come anywhere near that of south korea , and still are vastly wealthier than the rest of the n-11 years , some of which remain among the world ’s poorest countries . these countries have extremely diverse economic and social conditions , and very different levels of wealth .
turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , owing to a betrayal by the kurds who have spearheaded the fight against the islamic state ( isis ) , also undercut eu interests . for the first time since world war ii , europe finds itself without a notable ally or partner . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians periodically mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , while china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and treason of allies represent a new norm for the global order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to the demagogic attacks of liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open support of authoritarians .
leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , have calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . comparatively few europeans seem to contest the moral imperative of accepting asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria ’s civil war , or of political oppression elsewhere . he forecast that labor shortages are creating a cap that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % in the years between now and 2030 and a mere 1.3 % from then to 2050 . whether or not changes in public sentiment in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed more negatively . removing some 70 million jobs , and thus european taxpayers , from the european economy , would thus clearly be disastrous .
not since 1951 have international refugee standards received so much attention . according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . at last count , some 258 million migrants worldwide have been displaced , with 22.5 million people registered as refugees by the united nations refugee agency . these numbers will be minimized if even the most modest climate-related predictions . and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration – a gap that must be addressed now .
here , after my show trial and four and a half months in a cell , i discovered that there are no atheists in jail , either . in this season of love and family , a prison cell ’s loneliness is almost unbearable . when , despite unbearable pain , you are interrogated – including in your cell – for a dozen hours without a break , and an authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion , including its media , try to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prague becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can have . god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend and only available family , because – deprived even of access to a trusted priest – there is no one else to confide one ’s worries and hopes . lukyanivska prisons , kyiv , has said that there are no atheists in a foxhole .
and some donors – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank – are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count non-subsidized loans as official development assistance ( oda ) to enable them to meet their oda targets . but education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind in the pursuit of non-grant-based support . loan buy-downs can help to keep the education sector “ competitive , ” and could prove to be a mechanism to leverage the extra resources for education , for which a capital-strapped country may not be willing to borrow otherwise . this reverses the trend over the last few decades toward grant-based funding , particularly for basic education . but , beyond aid reductions , donors can also make it more difficult for borrowing countries to repay the aid funds they hold ( this is not constrained by education loans ) .
let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool for avoiding conflict in the long run . had more attention to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , this population may not have chosen violence as an instrument of change . moreover , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs that focus on those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence is occurring in the slums of its large cities . ultimately , the enhanced economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in a context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of a growing pie , rather than a shrinking one .
water supply is also highly variable across regions and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times . one new factor influencing the supplies of water is rising global temperature , which is the result of a rise in emissions . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline – adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx – we see that concern about exhausting resources is not new . while we are not certain of the precise effects , many researchers believe that total annual precipitation will increase , but that its seasonality and frequency can also increase . this would make it more difficult to harness the existing supply infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without big modifications .
qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliation , rather than any concept of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what may be the most humane of the outcomes ) may be great . that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s successive security problems . the oil sector appears to be relatively intact , and thus should contribute to government revenues relatively soon . but arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq was the result of the near-catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army , with no pay or retirement at all . libya is fortunate is some ways in this .
even aside from the insecurity of new property rights , the gains from privatization are often dubious , at best . the problem lies in the assumption that most state enterprises have value . in the last years of investment in communism , many ( sometimes most ) big firms were misbegotten as early as . even in the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , large state-owned ( and many private ) firms often need to break up , restructure , merged , or shut . in the former communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) big firms were misbegotten as early as the start .
a new international initiative called the “ electrification roadmap , ” ” ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of power supply to achieve the mdgs , as well as from his sustainable energy initiative for all ” ( se4all ) , and was officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as the discussions there showed , these issues are receiving increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people throughout the developing world . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and support . we have electrified more than four million households through a focused effort over a short timeframe , an effort that featured prominently in discussions held by the united nations secretary-general ’s sustainable energy advisory council , and that drew interest from other developing countries .
but causation also runs the other way as well . the united nations ’ medium-term fertility scenario projects that the world ’s population will rise from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 . high fertility rates stymie economic-growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s gdp could grow from 18 million today to 42 million . high fertility rates in many countries are partly a consequence of low income .
fast-forward to the present : the economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % pace , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services . once europe ’s north korea under the communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level is now 25 % that of germany . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates on record and a strengthening currency . it now has the lowest sovereign spread for any country in its rating class , indicating that markets think the rating agencies have been sleepwalking at the wheel . all of the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome have been there .
what is needed now is political will – and not only in the us – to sustain this diplomacy . the obama administration should hold firm on this through coming rounds of negotiations , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policies on darfur in order to ensure that peacekeeping efforts there receive the same level of attention as the north-south effort . peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for the normalization of us-sudan relations . conversely , the us must be ready to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors , especially egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda , will also need to play a robust role .
this renewed decline in debt discipline reflects socialization of potential costs for bankruptcy among all eurozone countries through the means of joint-liability mechanisms . there is nothing surprising about this : when a sdecision-maker can claim full credit for a policy ’s benefits and collectivize costs , it pursues the policy sooner , more quickly , and to a larger extent than it would have had it had to bear the costs on its own . nonetheless , new debt is nothing short of a form of dope , reducing pressure to undertake painful measures that improve competitiveness and capacity growth . it is this de facto debt mutualization that has prompted creditors to accept lower interest rates and merely lower interest rates that have enabled renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from austerity policies . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of another social breakthrough .
in short , javanese culture helps indonesia to handle the many diverse voices that a new democracy is causing . and why has n’t the world taken note ? the story is just as complex as indonesia itself . one leading indonesia expert , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , especially its wayang religious tradition . according to anderson , in contrast to the great religions of the near east … the religion of the wayang has no prophet ; no message ; no bible , no redeemer … the endless variety and sharp individuality of its dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflects a variegation of human life , as is felt by javanese .
the eu ’s most precious tools are its signature , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power . that stance has translated , most obviously , into the repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of victims . next door , russia , too , must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions . it is critical to engage with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting point – a place of political , economic , and energy cooperation . the kremlin continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain strict aversion to military intervention , and seek to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base at the syrian city of tartus .
cairo – last week , saudi arabia ’s visit to egypt resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a lie . but lavish support came at a price : egypt had to relinquish the two red sea islands ceded to saudi arabia in 1950 . indeed , egypt can not even handle the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies , a situation that jihadists enjoy with much success . how , then , did the country reach this point ?
the security challenge nigeria faces dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown unveiled the safe school initiative . in a similar vein , the #bringbackourgirls campaign began online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka of the world book day speech , in which he called upon jonathan to “ bring back pupils . ” nigerians ’ expressions of online outrage soon translated into organized action offline , headed by former government minister oby ezekwesili ( who also spoke at the world book event ) and civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . international media have paid rapt attention , reporting on protests and sit-ins . protests have spread across nigeria , as well as to countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , such as the united kingdom , south africa , and canada .
by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia lost its claims to legitimacy and soaking up fear and mistrust in much of the world . an immediate cost was poland ’s reversal of its resistance to the american anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . in early august , russia set a trap in south ossetia , with georgian foolishly walked into it . if russians were to use their “ peacekeeping ” ” peacekeeping ” solely to protect south ossetians on the basis of “ self-determination ” ( citing the precedent of western action in kosovo ) , they would have done little harm to their soft power , and the benefits could far exceed the costs . neighbors like ukraine have become more wary .
greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas china , and the dutch and british east india firms have organized much of world trading through such networks . but a diaspora ’s potential economic significance goes well beyond remittances . as the late historian philip curtin documented , from the dawn of urban life , millennia ago , trade typically involved networks of collaborative ethnic merchants living among extraterritorial firms . although these alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in host countries , they were often weak and faced with discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflects their ability to enforce contracts at long distances when existing institutional frameworks could not do so reliably .
trump ’s signature theme is that , by helping business , he will help all americans . when government policies reduce profitability or threaten a company ’s existence , it is only reasonable that people running that business should respond as they see fit . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company an additional $ 45 million . such tariffs raise costs for companies that use metal as an input . for example , the impact on harledavidson is to raise costs by about $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) .
but selection of experts reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry . in fact , the ministry used its “ informational campaign ” campaign ” to shape the public debate , convincing scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more concerned about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effects of a negative demand shock . for more than two decades – a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation , japan retained its position as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ” at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
in fact , big risks nowadays are that , with so many genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , we are drowning in a sea of data but moving further away from our understanding of biological complexities . what we need now are cell maps and maps of how cells speak with each other . the underlying functional units of all complex living organisms , it should be remembered , are cells , not genes . our first task is to say how many different cells there are in the complex organism . we can now say , as we put it in c. elegans .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the spring of 1989 , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , seems to have been the anti-communist revolt that has failed . within the next two years , the soviet union , cracked open by mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms , finally imploded . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . as the brutal crackdowns on and following june 3-4 played out , political freedom was won in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then began that fall , in eastern germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , rather than democratically , romania .
on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians . in today ’s europe , they see only hints of a possibility – glass far less than half full – for reform and restructuring , and impatient at europe ’s slow progress . true , europe is moving at a painfully slow pace , but the attack on the state and its allies in the ossified supply side , and the industrial stake holders ’ industrial stake in the dinosaurs , is widening . new fronts in this war are opening each day . from here is but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe because it is socially reprehensible , and in any case poised to crash any day .
they simply need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . there is little reason – and no excuse – to abandon the survival of millions of people to unforeseeable weather events . to be sure , progress has been made . rather , countries must take control by drastically improving efficiency and productivity . some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture .
even prior to that time , england was an economic wunderkind of europe . such rapid industrial rises are rare , but not unprecedented . the most interesting analogies are germany ’s ’s ’s ’s rise in the 19th century and japan ’s in the 20th ’s . europeans may be more merry , believing that the chinese market will open not only for european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also for luxury goods and even tourism demanded by the new and affluent chinese middle class . everybody senses that a seismic shift is under way .
the once and future president argues that he has already made russia stronger , and that as financial insecurity grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied many . everybody expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin after the march elections . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who could replace medvedev should russia need a “ factotum of sincerity ” about economic reform . in putin ’s eyes , however , this is an unlikely scenario . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence might just buy putin some extra time .
over time , this fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because banks were not forced to live with the consequences . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , the volume is its own remuneration , even as that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . the share of the “ weakest links ” – corporates rated b – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) – in overall activity has risen markedly since 2013-2015 . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now account for about 80 % of the outstanding figure . furthermore , not only are the newer issues that come from the lower-quality borrower , covenants on such tools , provisions intended to ensure their compliance , and thus minimize default risk – also became lax .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on issues that some indian mandarins have preferred lamentable – south sudan , for example , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark serious violence in an area where indian un peacekeepers are already in operation . also during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the united nations peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal will be addressed . before long , the council will also have to consider the implications of the likely commencement of an american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct importance to india ’s national security . issues like sanctions on iran , the stop-and-launch middle eastern peace process , and the world ’s response to a likely change of leadership in north korea will almost certainly emerge on the council ’s agenda as well . all are issues calling for a creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or a reflexive solidarity with a “ non-aligned ” country .
years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians nearing the middle age . that practicality will sorely be tested if they are to succeed . one problem that orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks . the fact that fidesz increased its number of parliamentarians from 20 before the election to 129 now means that many members have never been subjected to the party whip . moreover , a large number of these new fidesz mps are formerly members of other parties , collapsed right-wing parties , not so long ago .
but it is the opponents of wielding liberalism most effectively . as far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become a sauvage . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents must tap into the passions of their own . without disregarding logic and ethics – areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine the alternative , liberals must unite with people on an emotional level . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism have become sources of positive emotion , even as such emotions – nostalgia and völkissing a sense of belonging – are ever-shifting sands .
i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically catastrophic , and ignores the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century . in studying physics , the students study algebra simultaneously , motivating them with a sense of mathematics ’s power . this sequence of study was devised in 1893 , and it was the result of the study ’s study . other industrial nations may cycle through pieces of disciplines , missing the essential coherence of a p-c-b sequence . studying science should start with physics , not biology .
until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funds for wars . but in britain in 1842 , income taxes became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining worldwide . many at the time rejected policy altogether , warning that it would destroy incentives and push the economy toward deflation . fortunately , their hue and cry have gone unheeded .
before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) deficit limits . in the us , the 1980 ’s deficit limits , set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law , were not met , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended . governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of the newly agreed fiscal guidelines ( if they are ratified ) . while talk is tough now , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . yet sticking to the euro and forcing all downward adjustments in wages risks greater unrest ; indeed , it might merely postpone the inevitable .
countries receiving assistance should be given the option of applying for the anticipated disbursement of eu funds . such leveraging the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the successor to the efsm ) and mtfa . between mtfa , efsm , and payments to third countries , the total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period may be possible , while upholding the medium-term objective of a balanced budget . following a member state ’s request , the commission would be authorized to borrow on capital markets under implicit eu budget guarantees , with the maximum exposure determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds .
it is a tradition they wish to continue , probably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . indeed , japan ’s desire to continue to kill whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than by environmentalists ’ opposition to it . the japanese do have one argument that is not so easily dismissed . eating whales is neither necessary for health nor better nutrition . they argue that western countries object to whaling because , for them , whales are a special kind of animal , because cows are for hindus .
the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are scaled back to efficient size , and that the capital market is able to do their job , improving resource allocation . the bad news is that financial capital is moving abroad to finance other overblown conglomerates . germany , inc. , is on its last legs , and it is the only way to do that . the international equity fund has stepped in , providing companies with an urgent need for liquidity while disentangling a traditional ownership network . abolishing taxes on realized capital gains has raised share sales enormously .
even absent such developments , drift is not desirable . there is a big difference between a north korea armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and improper missiles , and one with dozens of advanced weapons that could be mounted on precision long-range missile-defense systems , capable of reaching the us . at this point , any realistic policy must begin with accepting the reality that complete and fully verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect anytime soon . the talks would probably be contained ; the us is back to where we were two years ago , but with recrimination and mistrust . north korea could use the passage of time to increase the number of nuclear weapons in its arsenal , making some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems without overt testing .
a time comes when all disasters have occurred and all stupidities are recognized . their absence makes it very difficult to invest too large amounts of money in russian securities . for russia , august 1998 marked that dividing line . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy . fortunately , the bond markets are dead and might take a year to revive .
the contrast between this dynamic space for open protest , and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system . faces of the royal family are seen everywhere ; women ’s faces are shrouded , forcibly concealed . they have made their way , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated in part by social demands – above all for their own empowerment . nowhere else in the world can we see modernity experienced as such .
in this scenario , one will have to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of the global division of labor . for example , the repeal of the united kingdom ’s corn laws in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i. after wwi , the pendulum swung back toward the nation-state . we can identify important swings throughout the history of capitalism over the past two centuries , either toward the eu or the state . between these two extremes lie most of the world , as it is characterized by regional integration projects like the eu , or by the north american free trade agreement .
japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . but the “ perfect storm ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , together with the resulting meltdown of the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , went beyond any scenario previously envisaged . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plan on how they faced in contaminated areas , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiency and poor communication , particularly regarding radiological risk . despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate risk and reduce potential hazard from the consumption of contaminated foodstuffs . local communities initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools ) in tandem with the efforts of the japan atomic energy agency ( iea ) to develop technology for remediation within such zones .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing to a close . kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs . kirchner ’s successor , his dow cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . she recently suffered a severe defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to remove subdural hema in her brain .
in good times , we probably would not tell the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to avert another crisis . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future situations that are likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . if decisions about systemically important national financial institutions are made at the european level in good times , while in bad times , national taxpayers pick a tab , the entire eu will lose . the three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards , which may eventually become binding across the eu if endorsed by the european commission , but will also be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency , like that of the us currently , eu agencies might be given an predominance over national supervisors .
but the cause is all too well known : there is a war against education . more than 28 million extra-access children are growing up in conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , the partition of myanmar , and south sudan . there have been two more attacks on schoolchildren in afghanistan this week , one at a girls ’ school in afghanistan , where staff have been bludgeoned and bombs , and another at neighboring boys ’ school , where a classroom is sprayed on bullets . all of them are vulnerable to extremist violence , and each of them is vulnerable to violence against them . the number of casualties in both assaults remains unknown .
here is one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami is matched every month by the number of people worldwide with hiv/aids . one hopes that this task has been made moderately easier by the publication of a book in which the copenhagen consensus economists boil down their insights . a comprehensive prevention program that provides free or inexpensive condoms , and information about safe sex to regions worst affected by hiv/aids , would cost $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives . this , say , is what the economists who embark on the copenhagen consensus , makes it the single best investment that the world could perhaps make . the social benefits would outweigh the costs by 40 to one .
china ’s government regards the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to a comfortable lifestyle . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions into question . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotes the highly intelligent catherine mann commenting on the “ co-dependent relationship … between the u.s. and its trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite a while , ” because “ the u.s. and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” japan , china , and the other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed eager to keep the dollar ’s value relatively high , with their central banks having piled up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets .
washington , dc – not long ago , separating financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries – such as the united kingdom and australia – went so far as to unbundle such functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and to de-politicize their central banks from financial supervisory issues altogether . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management have been forced to reunify . this rapprochement is a consequence of the growing recognition that asset-price cycles must account for both macroeconomic management and financial supervision . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles were viewed by many as essentially harmless , or at least as a relatively insignificant monetary-policy channel .
seoul – if you chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both go away . and yet this is precisely what many governments are obliged to do : pursue both growth and distributional fairness . much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . the two goals , while not incompatible , are entirely different from one another , and few policy tools can simultaneously help to achieve both . this idea matters a lot in trade policy .
meanwhile , the world ’s other countries – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering how the ttip would affect each of them . one possibility , suggested by my ex-colleague , former us trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus to rekindle the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . mexico already has an fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , nafta and ttip will need to be harmonized . the ttip is not just about the american and eu .
indeed , the sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ ’ ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone . as a result , the probability of a eurozone disaster is rising . to prevent a disorderly eurozone outcome , today ’s fiscal austerity should be far more gradual , the growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) – a full banking union , starting with eurozone-wide deposit insurance , must be considered , and moves toward greater political integration must be considered , even as greece leaves the eurozone . unfortunately , germany resists all of these key policy steps , because it is fixated on the credit risks that its taxpayers would face with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst , it is not the only one threatening global economy .
of course , china claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful . but actions speak louder than words – and the message that china ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be tapping into the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over the wide web of asia ’s oceans . for example , there is every sign that its effort to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy is aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , the maritime trade route that is perceived as choke points for the chinese economy . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral relationship that will benefit both countries next to impossible .
european opponents of the map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . but the map process does not imply an automatic right to nato membership . on the contrary , the maps would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . too many question that their national unity is said to exist , too many internal conflicts linger , and their record of political and judicial reforms is supposedly dubious . both would have to answer many difficult questions and persuade others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic demands before being allowed to join .
but , like donald trump , it was le pen who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” ” ” ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , portrayed himself as a puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . there is little doubt that something shifted in the last decades of the twentieth century . left-wing parties began to lose – in some countries more rapidly than others – their base in the industrial working class . redistribution of wealth became progressively less important than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities . so what left and right still means , if anything at all ?
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons , given the north korean threat and their diminished confidence in america ’s reliability and its guarantees to protect them with its nuclear forces . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in a crisis . the danger in both regions is that a race to the bottom to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preemptive war . one risk is that north korea will possess a significant arsenal , which poses a meaningful threat to the us . “ use ” or lose them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when capabilities are inadequate to absorb the attack , and still to mete out the sort of devastating retaliation essential for effective deterrence .
this emphasis on increasing exports rather than reducing imports is a welcome feature . at a 2013 summit at the sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama showed china ’s chinese president xi jinping the evidence that the chinese military ’s members were stealing industrial technology . the chinese embraced the evidence , agreed that theft of industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage , saying that the chinese government would not assist in such theft in the future . because that is not enough to stop other chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , the new nss rightly stresses that america ’s government will take additional steps to stop it . when it turns to specific trade policies , the nss emphasizes that america will seek to “ crack down on trade barriers and give americans opportunities to increase its exports . ”
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power , and that america was in decline . but such narratives can lead to conflict . indeed , overconfidence in assessing its power led to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relations with the us , japan , india , and other countries , they opted to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy . china miscalculated by deviating from a smart strategy of rising power , and by violating deng ’s dictum that china should proceed cautiously and “ skillfully to keep a low profile . ”
but , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . as such , countries ’ economic and financial fundamentals have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . argentina has fallen back into crisis for a simple reason that not enough has changed since its last debacle . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have been applied unequally , and the central bank has squandered its credibility at key moments . although they have been committed to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial authorities have also made several avoidable mistakes .
attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; a very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it had started . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure the economy rely on off-date , incomplete , or flawed data . as a result , forecasts lag behind reality . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp based on initial monthly estimates of quarterly gdp , a statistic that is often substantially revised upward as more data become available . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters contribute to a survey of professional forecasters predicted a gdp decline in the remaining months of this year ; indeed , gdp plunged by more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the highest drops on record .
the west is fighting a war over principles , war , as president bill clinton put it , “ to end a moral tragedy . ” this is a major change in nato policy , which downgrades the idea of national sovereignty , and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations . fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict , which , for one side , involves no considerations of strategy , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . at issue is an attempt to stop an epidemic , the carriers of which in 20th century europe had been nazism , communism , fascism , and now , nationalism . nato , for the first time , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs .
buildings last for decades , so decisions made today have a long-term impact on our energy use . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . building codes already guard against dangers like fire and earthquakes . california ’s latest construction and appliance standards are expected to avoid the need for five large power plants over the next ten years . policymakers know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and help build industrial capacity .
nevertheless , the effort to preempt america ’s strategy clearly failed , as new un sanctions were carried out earlier this month . just as the deal was designed to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why is there so much outrage in the us and the west ? instead of trying to explore the possibilities presented by the turkish brazilian/turkish opening , the american security council promptly pushed the united nations security council on more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this forced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent members of the security council , to vote against a sanctions resolution . i fear this , because the american people found itself denied its primacy in setting global policy toward iran .
they chose , without explanation , to divide debt-to-gdp ratios in the following categories : less than 30 % , 30-60 % , or 60-90 % , and more than 90 % , respectively . and it turned out that growth rates decline across all of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only somewhat more so in the last category . there is also the issue of reverse causality . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to increase for countries in economic trouble . if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios reflect lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid a higher ratio , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance .
this is also why the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protest are driven by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) tells us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . solar and wind currently emit roughly 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency forecasts that this will reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . as a result , policies that force people and companies to shift to immature technology will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty . vaclav havel , who is bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , argues that “ “ the claims of a rapid transition to a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , ” ” adding that “ even a vastly accelerating shift toward renewables would not help relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to global energy delivery anytime soon , certainly not to 2050 .
remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into less money-circulating in african countries . a ugandan physician working in norway , for instance , cares little about a beer ’s cost in kampala . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local doctor for services and , of course , a home in uganda . the drop in remittances , however , cuts in both ways .
rather , the precautionary principle should be used judiciously and rationally to balance potential risks with the benefits that innovation and the new technology might offer . this notion of risk underpins economic interactions . the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . in europe , by contrast , greater weight is being placed on risk-avoidance , which undermines private-sector confidence in investing in innovation . but mitigating all risk is impossible to mitigate , so that efforts to address this are not feasible .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different and perhaps contradictory expectations from the indirect negotiations that the united states has pushed on both sides . israel has been among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to give their blessing to the talks . for the palestinians , a return to the talks , however indirect , is centered on one strategic question : borders . just to remind the world of this , as the indirect talks were preparing to get off the ground , israel ’s government approved a resolution to break the ground on 112 housing units in the south of bethlehem and the 1600 new settlement units in east jerusalem . what is clear is that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the start of indirect talks without a freeze on settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem constitutes a sort of victory .
in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger imminent federal assistance . that the failure of international capital markets in the us led to sudden , devastating capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment `` thou does not intervene , '' '' the crucial feature of globalization 's hazard is market failure . consider other devastating events , which are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . contrary to moral hazard , market failure highlights circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible .
as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates control european politics . thus , although european countries remained democratic , eu institutions where sovereignty over crucial decisions was passed remained democracy-free . handing europe money and politics to a cartel administration did not only spell the end of european democracy ; they also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . the more europe establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . that leads european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their failed policies when recessionary economic forces strengthen .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at only their fourth-highest level . almost six months later , the total damage remains hard to estimate . social unrest and confusion , along with the radiation leaks by the fukushima nuclear-power plant , continue to do so . and now the country has absorbed another massive blow : another downgrade of its bond ratings .
syria and iraq have become crucial linkages in the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shia militias , and hezbollah , which controls south lebanon , and has thousands of rockets ready to target israel . moreover , the iranian regime has forged a network of proxy forces across the region . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all the crude missiles launched from gaza . even if the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be guaranteed , many could still resist defensive systems .
iraqis , ravaged by war and now shaken daily by violence , are well known as the most intellectually inclined of the arab countries . indeed , rasheed notes that at every us screening of his film , audiences need apology before starting to concern rasheed as a filmmaker rather than a representative of his country . “ personally , i do n’t ask anything ; i ’m here to clear some of the confusion by the medium of movie . ” here , hoping that raheed and his colleagues continue to build an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; here , we hope that the relationship between the us and international audiences to rasheed goes from one of expiation to one of engagement with his work . as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region often reiterate : “ books are written in egypt , print in lebanon , and read in iraq .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to build an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two kinds of cyclical macroeconomic risks . the first risk stems from business cycles in advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates rise and fall together . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as a power grab – since assuming office in 2012 . and , as recent european post-crisis experience has shown , implementing structural reforms is politically difficult , when vested interests have captured the regulatory system .
economic globalization has been shown to reduce child mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to increased incomes and better information . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen the average life expectancy of 2-3 years . what ’s more , “ free trade is good for the environment , ” to quote one academic study . moreover , trade also carries much broader benefits for society . in the us , trade over the last half-century has greatly increased longevity .
the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic , gradual effort to build unity . the permanent structured defense cooperation – agreed by the european council last december – is a good place to start , with countries increasing , for example , joint strategic planning at the european level . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to migrants ’ acceptance , member states should also work to develop stronger incentives for cooperation . but , as tempting as it may be , trying to paper over differences or avoid dissent , let alone destroy the compact at the european project ’s core , will not make matters any easier . there is no question that it is difficult for the 27 sovereign countries to act as one .
to be sure , the media are under attack like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists have been murdered around the world in the last 15 years , and only a handful of perpetrators have been brought to justice . and yet fresh glimmers of hope are proliferating . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in encouraging ways . in kabul on april 30 , in the back-to-back suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to a grim global tally .
future historians may well remember this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseen corollaries . yet , not so long ago , almost no one saw it coming . seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for most of the world ’s income , but only 15 % of its population . now , billions of people have been lifted out of poverty and are wealthier , healthier , and more opportunity .
indeed , it responded to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as tools of western power , stalking horses for american or german interests that would ultimately exploit ordinary poles . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would enable germany to dominate poland . at the same time , poland ’s communist government emphasized how incoherent the opposition was , owing to tensions inherent in a marriage of economic liberals , left-wing workers , conservative catholics , and nationalist parties . nurturing suspicions about who was backing whom helped to drive wedges between different groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview is today .
as the leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches to select more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he may decide to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to make more women ) . the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio of female mps . it is also disturbing that some women abe has chosen for his cabinet , and for key party posts , the arch-conservatives who advocate allowing women to stay at home and look after children . things are just as bad at lower levels of government , where women account for just 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom do not have female members at all .
living a long time is one of our deepest desires , with medical and economic progress offering the hope that it will be met . but what if our desire is taken for granted ? what good is a longer life if we can not maintain our standard of living ? the fundamental difficulty in enhanced longevity planning is that we do not know whether it will really happen . some researchers suggest that average human lifespan could reach 90 years or more by mid-century .
so , in introducing a new style of governance , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to antagonize political and business elites who have long benefited from their tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to form a national consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs , he will have to navigate this political divide . promisingly , jokowi has a repudiation of autonomy from partisan and religious politics , and the talents of communicating with the people . and , as a political outsider , he is in his unique position to direct indonesia directly toward a more prosperous , united future – and vault himself into great leaders ’ pantheon . to that end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the imf is far too political a body to act as a systemic-risk watchdog . the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb a legal personality , enshrined in an international treaty . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers to direct other standard setters , review implementation of standards by individual countries , and publish the results . currently , the board has no formal status and little , if high-quality , permanent staff hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel .
scores of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in support of the women . pussy riot , of course , could hardly be classified as musicians . both feminist chants and crude chords were secondary to the spectacle . the case also attracted the attention of the west . the case , too , attracted attention from the west .
in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts permitting oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment from sharing profits . now , following companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed yar ’ adua to take charge of oil policy want nigeria to get a bigger slice of the pie . the petroleum resources ministry ( dpr ) , the national oil regulatory agency , has discarded such claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that flout the deadline . that also means ending government co-financing of operating costs , and demanding that oil companies tap capital markets to bridge the shortcoming . moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr ’s chief executive , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , transforming the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm to dominate markets in the gulf of guinea and other emerging-market countries .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” was launched . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole of it ; many countries , too , ramped up monitoring and policing of domestic media , and ordinary citizens . freedom of expression and personal privacy , governments argued , would have to be curbed in terms of security . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror regulations have often been used as a tool of muffle the voices of those offering independent or alternative views , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s government . by using security as a pretext for flout russia ’s media legislation that explicitly protect journalists from censorship , the government has undermined journalism considerably .
colombian opponents of the peace agreement , for example , have appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the military and farc , not to national particularism , as in the united kingdom and the netherlands . the populist campaigns in major referenda this year have differed in important respects . nonetheless , they have all been motivated by a desire to the scuttle governments and the institutions they oppose . and all have been willing to follow the tradition of dictators , and to resort to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims . but , as edmund burke famously put it , “ your representative owes you , not its industry alone , but its judgments , and betrays , instead of serving you , if it sacrifices it to your opinion .
to a bookish young man , allen , the anxious intellectual who still gets the girl , was a kind of role model . but now that we know the accusations against the comedian and movie director , we are forced , in scott ’s view , to reappraise the work in that light . in other words , bad behavior , or even supposed bad behavior , can taint an artistic work , because the artist can not be divorced from his art . this is at least a more intriguing proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified simply because we do not like the way the artist behaved privately . there may be something ominous and immoral in movies to reflect .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed on charges of corruption . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes has just sentenced the country ’s former energy and mineral resources , jerusalem , to four years in prison . indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto has also been forced to resign , after having caught attempting extort money from a subsidiary of the mining corporation freeport-mcmoran corporation . journalism has as far as played a larger role . and public officials are being prosecuted just as well .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proved difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue increasing their countries ’ reliance on financing , thereby heightening the risk of a disorderly market adjustment than they are to implement difficult structural and fiscal adjustments . for this reason , many countries have endured painful disruptions that aggravated possibly avoidable falls in output , caused unemployment to skyrocket , and , at worst , eroded potential growth . a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” mechanism entails a combination of internal reforms , funding , and judicious use of the market-pricing mechanism .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article based on a secret document that reveals how breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ being treated as parts of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustration expressed by the ukrainian government . a document gathered by bild is a report from the october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission on the provision of humanitarian aid to affected areas in southeast asia and luhansk . ” it describes how the meeting ’s attendees focused not only on humanitarian assistance , but rather on serving as a sort of shadow government . working groups cooperating with russian authorities were established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade .
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relationship with europe , there should be no doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners will bring to that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of eu politeness . but they will not thank us , and will not accommodate us . let us be very clear , too , about “ renegotiating the terms of membership , ” the refuge of those who wish to leave but wish to persuade the people that it really is a just adjustment of the relationship . when , over the course of “ adjustment , ” ” ” ” ” the going gets extremely rough ( as it will ) , they say , “ well , pity , but now seem to be lacking .
at the same time , it is depriving the continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” gender equity in stem is achievable . but they need help , and programs that offer scholarships and support are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . africa ’s stem gender imbalances are often at odds with a leaky pipe : girls start out with interest and aptitude , but drop out of the disciplines at various points in their education .
the advantages of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . global firms waste time and resources on largely futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only the banks that behave like middlemen ) . and however farfetched a global currency may sound , recall that before world war i , ditching the gold standard seemed equally implausible . the current system is both risky and inefficient . different monies are not just a nuisance by tourists who arrive home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coin .
what they failed to do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counterproposal . but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could be transformed into “ auspicious gradualism . ” after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically boosting the peace settlement ’s chances of long-term success . their offer , which would have to go well beyond the 2002 arab peace initiative , or a portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions , could even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of the transition to a final settlement . in the past , transitional agreements amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ”
these are not politicians , but former idealists who are happy that their goals of islamicizing the state are being realized . as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses for greater “ talibanization ” ” ” of the country , and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power . the caning of kartika , by contrast , is not an example of political manipulation , and for this reason is perhaps even more worrisome . her sentence was roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that the punishment is justly applied and can not be questioned because it has divine sanction . most are anti-umno and aid to pas .
it would probably seek to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , the trade deal that us president barack obama has committed last year . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would have to find some means to bridge the sino-centric asia and the us-centered pacific . in particular , the us would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because the us might want a united asia-pacific economic community rather than a divide between asia and the pacific . because japan would not want to be disconnected from the us on strategic grounds , it might actually accept america ’s invitation . obviously , the us would need to respond to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta to preserve its own role in global trade – and in the supply chains that dominate asian economies .
as a premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe ’s discussion of fiscal policy , trade policy , and demographic transition . but , while it is quietly making many important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus unable to reach forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands the super-normal influence . this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a group of nation states that have yet to determine whether they prefer greater unity or greater decentralization . for the boj , the fundamental problem is its deep institutional fear of rocking the boe politically , thus its inability to play the role of chief economist .
but , with incomes in the bottom 90 % having stagnated for close to a third of a century ( and declining for a significant share ) , health data simply confirmed that things were not going well for very large swaths of the country . why have the backlash come just when the us economy seemed to be on the mend , rather than earlier ? and , while america might be at the extremes of this trend , things were little better elsewhere . these results were foreshadowed by the study last year by anne case and angus deaton , which showed that life expectancy is on the decline for the large segments of the us population – including america ’s so-called angry people of the rust belt . but , if it seemed clear that there would be political consequences , their form and timing were far less obvious .
for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in yet another asymmetrical war like the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . it would require bold statesmanship to turn a cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks . indeed , both israel and the united states are adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as an opposition movement only to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s minimum demands . aside from the annapolis talks , which seem to be going nowhere , owing to the parties ’ irreconcilable differences over core issues , all the other peacekeeping efforts are more tactical than strategic . in none of them do the conditions yet exist for an immediate leap from war to peace , nor do the parties themselves expect it to happen .
specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro and re-embrace of the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation , and possibly the swiss franc – relative to the euro . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to retain the euro in their truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or the franc . regardless of their determination , the eurozone ’s price competitiveness in the weaker economies would improve considerably . to be sure , france and germany would need to implement tentative arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability .
other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down on hard intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just anyone with ideas and want to exchange them with others . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorists , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism . in its muslim era , iran has boasted of some of the world ’s greatest poets , writers , and scientists . thus , the islamist revolutionaries of 1979 made the point of preserving zoroastrian fire temples . none of this would have been possible had iran ’s antiquated muslim rulers not allowed academic freedom and free exchange of thought and expression , something sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic .
the leadership group ’s first priority would be to address the current crisis . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish it from the existing arrangements . the leadership group would thus represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ ’ ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , and it would provide a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . in order to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe and within existing structures , eu leadership groups should include representative states from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . originally , the leadership group could include representatives from a core group of states , for example , france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly empowered by and connected to their presidents and prime ministers .
finally , there are two major differences between the 1930 ’s and the current one . the industrialized world is now far more dependent on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . as some confidence returns in the eventually recapitalized banking system and prolonged bond yields with a fall in inflation , mortgages , and other borrowing rates fall , and monetary transmission mechanisms revive , support economic activity , and stabilize real house prices , albeit at a substantially lower level . the extreme rise in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , and its reversal will be a major factor in the recovery . the other crucial difference is that we know enough not to repeat the mistakes – especially trade protectionism – of the 1930s .
populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ grim truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” of course , our expectations will always be in tension with reality . but dark clouds have formed on the horizon . terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . scientists continue to come as a surprise , with billions of people worldwide lifted out of poverty .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia , and the united states is important not so much for what it could mean on the ground that remains to be seen as the inspectors start flowing into syria , hoping , chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to be destroyed . rather , the agreement ’s core significance consists in the impact that it was struck at all : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva that most conventional diplomatic venues , cut an agreement on an intensive mutual interest . in the days , weeks , and months ahead , the arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , launch a new era in which the american and russia are working together on other pressing global issues as well . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system , now almost dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . the agreement in syria could accomplish something else : the americans might recognize that , lo and behold , there are other ways to fix problems than by dropping bombs .
to be sure , multinational corporations enjoy transfer pricing flexibility and can exert pressure at a time when new investment decisions are made ; but their flexibility does not match the freedom that international portfolio investors enjoy . moreover , financial capital is better situated in the global system than industrial capital ; once a plant exists , it is hard to do so . there is also an advantage in being at the center of the global economy , rather than in the periphery . the benefits of global capitalism are unevenly spread . capital is in a much better position than labor , because capital is more mobile .
as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude oil spot prices are less subject to speculative volatility , and is thus a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . the graph i prepared – made before the latest oil-price acceleration in early november shows the five-year forward oil price picking up after a period of some stability . with the spot price now having moved above a five-year forward price , one could conclude that a trend reversal is taking place . for my part , i ’m uncertain ; but i would n’t be surprised if it happened . i have long defaulted on watching a five-year forward price for lack of a more fundamentals-based approach to thinking about the equilibrium price of oil .
that does not amount to a coherent government program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quickly revealed the dpj ’s fundamental hollowness . but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s government is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . the dpj was established in 1998 as the “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people abandoning the ldp , including hatoyama himself , and the former socialist party . the dpj ’s only reason for being , however , its anti-ldp stance is its anti-ldp stance , while the spd has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes koizumi ’s era ’s privatizations . this should not have come as a surprise .
as a result , many consider defense expenditures a luxury , if not an outright waste of money . preparing for effective defense of the state is unthinkable without a greater or lesser degree of participation by all institutions of the state . thus , time and again , that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of every one of us . the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible enemy at present . in a democratic state , these engage in defense efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of defense in the first place .
with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the formation of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for the power of spillover benefits from this type of research . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover benefits for african economies . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to the issuance of three american patents , with several agricultural companies pursuing rights commercialize technology products . more investment could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique skills to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity .
iranians also pledged to halt the israeli-arab peace process . in the american-iranian equation it was american rather than iran , which conducted rigid ideological diplomacy . iran backed the us during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . iran also supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . and , when us forces overran saddam hussein ’s army in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would put all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas .
it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty in 2002 . and , more recently , it has embarked on the massive build-up of conventional forces and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , brazil , and the rest of the world will not allow for a return to us hegemony . putin has recently made this apparent by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems as part of what i would call a strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ” at the same time , the us has long pursued military supremacy .
it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim . it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim . but in copenhagen , the structure established by the lisbon treaty failed . beyond the failure in copenhagen , the eu has a number of other problems . with only 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) , and comprising post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly seen as peripheral .
if a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart decides that it does not allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power will lead to changes in packaging for the entire retail sector . the same is true of us wages and labor practices . but larger firms also have larger capacity to become a force for good , both locally and globally . when the largest companies in the world and most well recognized brands take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and make firm commitments on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those operating in an ethical manner and seeking to improve the lives of all who are connected to the manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their products will benefit kudos , more entrepreneurship , or simply not , as a bad actor .
there are roughly 70 separate local aids offices and 40 international ngos involved in providing aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country . simply put , the western countries ’ current approach is not working . this can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan . despite the massive increase in subsidies in recent years , including the billions authorized by former us president barack obama , those on the ground are largely cut off from the delivery process .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not lead to the undesired effect of a spiral of extreme climate change , owing to a catastrophic rise in global temperatures , a harsher environment , and increased poverty levels . ” he noted that oil companies are engaged in “ the continued quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement clearly urged keeping most of the fossil-fuel industry underground . and he reminded executives that , “ civilization requires energy , but the use of energy must not destroy civilization ! ” francis underscored a moral dimension of the problem : “ the use of energy in agriculture must be used to the point of view . ” the same corruption of purpose is causing the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewables .
and a near-identical , invariably deadly disease , kuru ravaged aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie are virulent . the resulting epizootic ( animal epidemics ) affected more than 280,000 cows . kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic rituals commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy livestock were fed meat and a bone of food made from infected livestock .
all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuate genuine concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their home ’ market value . from every angle , the extremity of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit need not , and those who can not get it – is deeply problematic . if left unattended , it leads to gradual , and then accelerate , renewed deleveraging in the us economic system , with the highest first-round costs – a prolonged unemployment and growth crisis – borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with healthy balance sheets would be impacted , accelerating their disengagement from the world economy ’s deleveraging .
only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , the manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile for a brief time of zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . by the early 1990 ’s , it had become increasingly apparent that the armed struggle for power in latin american countries was winding down . in country after country , the guerillas were defeated , pacified , pulled into the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant . everywhere else , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical mistakes , erroneous theories , american intervention , etc. – they faced only defeat , repression , and futility . democratic transitions across the hemisphere had made guerrilla warfare unjustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , embracing arms .
at that time , the working-class dependably supported center-left parties . the only political space left behind for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants . european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms lived on elsewhere , such as argentina ’s with its peronism . the social foundations of interwar fascism made it sensible to see it as the right ’s party . today , the social basis of left-wing politics has vanished .
it should have been a careful and deliberate sounding of the people ’s will . instead , greece got a hastily orchestrated referendum . putting this aside , let us suppose that the decision before tsipras was so crucial and complex that it merited the referendum ’s exceptional step . in that case , the event should have reflected that complexity . it was supposed to be organized and engage with due respect to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed to the greek people .
as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision has featured in conflicts between europeans and middle easterners for centuries . moreover , different communities prioritize human rights in different ways . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; but for others , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ human rights language hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” in other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . under circumcision , there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individuals ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and authority , multiculturalism , and nationalism , and religious and secular moral perspectives .
new delhi – there is something about the number five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship in terms of sheela ’s famous pancha : mutual respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s internal affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela , with president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . india would be happy to embrace each of these principles . updated principles would preserve strategic communication and sound bilateral relationships ; harness one another ’s strengths , and expand cooperation in infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and increase mutual understanding and friendship ; expand coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate one another ’s ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably .
the result has been a disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades . for 25 years , the bank has tried to get agricultural governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . the bank has also pushed for the privatization of national health systems , water utilities and roads and power networks , and grossly underfinanced these critical sectors . this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” went against the practical lessons of the development successes of china and the rest of asia . the practical development strategy recognizes that public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is necessary to complement private investment .
already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , giving the government an excuse to bar him from the ballot box . putin ’s authority may appear unshakeable , but it is actually propped up by propaganda and fear . when american betrays his own values in order to avoid challenging russia , putin ’s hand strengthens putin . meanwhile , the perception that he has the american people on the ropes enables putin to continue to silencing his opponents . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to heed leeway abroad gives him .
across europe , calls for “ affordable energy ” are quickly becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and rollback of green-energy commitments . with energy prices moving center stage , there is a danger that already-weak investment incentives in low-carbon energy will be further undermined . recent debates in the uk illustrate the unfolding fault lines . five years ago , britain broke an international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , political leaders have openly attacked “ burdensome ” green taxes .
indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese , particularly the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform , to become increasingly disillusioned . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated . kleptocracy of government officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen concolonized the chinese state , intent on blocking any reforms that might threaten their privileged status .
in addition to another reasonably productive nuclear security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the news on the disarmament front over the past year has certainly been gloomy . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the us 2,000 nuclear weapons , which remain at absurdly dangerous , cool war-era launch readiness , have never really started . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has voiced the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers holding 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , make further major cuts . negotiations with america ’s prudent initial moves to amend its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” is to respond to nuclear threats , and not any other kind – have gone nowhere . further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before the american presidential election season began .
indeed , many farc defectors now prefer fighting for their cause at the ballot box under the new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat extend far beyond colombia . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popular popularity and growing economy , delivered for the first time in three decades , normality to colombia ’s ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and the rule of law to much of its extensive jungle regions . in the process , he has transformed a country that has been in the grip of drug barons and the verge of becoming a failed state . likewise , the hostage rescue mission has forced chávez , still recovering from last year ’s failed power-grab referendum ( a moment when chávez ’s own army high command allegedly has refused his demand for the result ) onto the defense .
but the reality remains that a significant share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – will go through their school-age years , without ever having even set foot in a school . across the world , 35 conflict zones are currently being withheld by 75 million children both in education and the prospect of future employment . clearly , the aid to international education will have to increase . yet , with a $ 40 billion annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone , it is also clear that the us needs a new approach . in addition to mobilizing private sources of finance , the us must make the aid already available ( at $ 13 billion this year ) far further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase its own investments in education .
and , indeed , a substantial share of greece ’s government debt has migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions have already largely bailed out private institutions . but the risks have not been eliminated , either . because they are still not strongly capitalized , modest losses from direct defaults and indirect losses from companies with business in greece can jeopardize bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending . the margin for error for major banks and other financial institutions is narrow .
by forecasting medications , aggregating orders , and encouraging competition , in combination with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers were able to secure market efficiencies . as a result , these efforts reduced the cost of annual hiv treatments , from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 . the resulting economies of scale have allowed contractors to shift from low-volume , high-margin solutions to high-volume , low-margin profit models . for example , programs to track how many high-blood pressure people have been diagnosed and placed on treatment , what proportion to those on treatment has achieved blood-pressure control , and what level of treatment should be required to reduce premature deaths by a desired target . finally , the effort to aids has been able to expand as a result of the powerful advocacy and collaborations that have transformed markets for diagnostic and treatment programs .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what is killing a person is part of an epidemic . just before last year ’s trade talks in cancun , the us made some concessions so that it is no longer the only holdout . the global consensus , reflected in the commission 's report , calls for more exceptions , so that , say , drugs can be made available in any case where to do so could save a life . in its bilateral trade agreements , however , america demands what is becoming known as " trips plus " to strengthen intellectual property rights further , ensuring that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during the epidemics and other contingencies . bilateral agreements shape the foundations of enhanced ties of friendship between countries .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether the recovery in the us is real . if it is , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly . and , if its exports grow more rapidly , they can allow the renminbi to rise . meanwhile , the spending rate on china will not change dramatically .
specifically , the fund would need to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( especially the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private counterparts . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad set of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral part of effective country advice and program implementation , as well as being essential to the fund ’s ’s “ surveillance function ” under its article articles of agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national issues that are now pervading its policy agenda . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether in countries or in policy work , were discouraged . the situation today is very different , and the international monetary fund is doing its part .
and , thanks to united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from attack , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . this has meant funding school guards , fortifications , and surveillance equipment to assuage parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to ensure that their school is safe to attend . once slow to respond , the world is acting today . thirty countries recently signed up lucens , or safe school guidelines , which instruct their military agencies to prevent schools from being used as instruments of war . and , thanks to united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from attack , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools .
because fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more growth in domestic demand , via delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . that is why greece is insolvent and coercive restructuring of its public debt is unavoidable . it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why even italy , which is on a relatively sounder fiscal footing but has had flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform , can not be complacency . but the eurozone ’s two biggest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of that agenda , hoping that a quarter of sound gdp data makes a trend . the rest of europe is in barely better shape than the periphery : the bond vigilantes may not have been swamped in france ; but economic performance has been anemic at best , driven mostly by a mini housing boom .
jospin and chirac did nothing to implement the grand liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , which means that the benefits of liberalization are denied france at a time when the public is interpreting the eu as imposing all sorts of restrictions on the french way of doing business . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( l’exception francaise ) , and to initiate serious reforms that engage the french electorate . europe was thought by the french political class to be the solution . but europe and the euro could be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . the shame of le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and address the country ’s problems .
there was certainly much of this type of sentiment in the 1930 ’s , when the populist reaction to the great depression attributed it to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” an alternative scenario suggests that these fears are about to emanate from a real problem . a modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security and , indeed , national identity are at odds . modern economic growth still depends in almost every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) . people in places like france and poland , who worry about national decline , seek to blame somebody outside the country .
calling for national elections , while politically correct , was political suicide , because he lacked any thought of a possible outcome , and did very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . abbas ’s son , mazen , is running a local advertising agency . his other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name , but a reflection of the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son . an attempt at the primary to choose fatah ’s candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the results . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s political corruption and micro-management , abbas lost whatever chance he needed to maintain the loyalty of fatah leadership , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most importantly , local militants .
new york – for four decades , the ledra street in the heart of nicosia was a symbol of the divided cyprus . it was a window onto what the future might bring . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that split the capital into north and south was opened . last week , i visited the ledra street street . it was a window onto what the future might bring .
such a turn of events would be equivalent to establishing the east asian free trade area that asean +3 has envisioned a decade ago . but if the proposals being discussed in beijing are realized last month , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in its level of integration and importance to the global economy . moreover , the emergence of the china-japan-south korea fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . for example , momentum could expand the southward , stimulating asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries to join the group . if that happened , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to leap on the bandwagon .
compare this with the antibiotic treatment of , say , urogenital infection , which lasts a few weeks at most . as a result , compliance with tb drug treatment is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant ( tb ) tb , which can no longer be treated by conventional therapeutic regimes . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli , which are mdr . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with a cure time of roughly two years , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as canonical drugs , and at a cost that rises by a factor of 10-100 . while this additional cost can be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poor countries , implying no or insufficient treatment .
in a country where money trumps democracy , such legislation has become predictably frequent . of course , market forces play a role as well , but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign-finance system and its revolving door between government and industry , politics is shaped by money . there are market economies that are doing better , both in terms of gdp growth and rising living standards for most citizens . for example , a bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives over all else but does not allow student debt to discharge , regardless of how inadequate education has provided , enriches bankers , and impoverishes many at the bottom . but rising inequality is not inevitable .
by contrast , former us secretary of state and democratic hillary clinton , and a leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed social-welfare and medicare reform . us senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton , actually proposes to expand programs ’ unfunded liabilities . with so few presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces serious risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , or the conservative entitlement-reform agenda can fail . either way , the us would face growth-limiting tax increases and limits on contributions that public investment can make to the country ’s future .
austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . but in all of these countries the political discourse of all the democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never enter into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives have expelled from its own party local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s deputies . this is precisely what the party of austrian conservative people , under wolfgang schuessel , has not done . confronted with an election outcome of whether to rejoin the social democrats , or haider ’s freedom party , has produced a faustian bargain with haider . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats has not been appealing to schuessel ’s party ( to one , no chancellor in such a coalition ) .
the congressional budget office projects that , even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by the tax reform would be to raise that to 97 % . a military emergency , or an economic downturn , would appeal to additional debt-financed spending , or to a tax cut . but even the massive spending program like the $ 900 billion american restoration and reinvestment act of 2009 would add just an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt ratio would make that much more difficult to achieve than a debt-to-gdp ratio of 92 % .
its peace and security council has met , and expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli , which is undermining the electoral process . the african union , too , responded promptly . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any effort to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire , ” and appeals to all stakeholders to accept the results declared by the electoral commission . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan challenged all parties to “ respect and implement fully the verdict of the ivorian people , ” as declared by an independent electoral commission . and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , saying that the world would “ hold those who act to thwart the democratic process and the willingness of voters to be accountable for their actions . ”
seoul – has the world entered a new era of chaos ? america ’s vacillating policy toward syria has certainly hinted so . indeed , the bitter legacy of the invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even as “ red lines ” are crossed , but also seemingly unwilling to bear any serious strain on its global leadership position . but , if america is no longer willing to lead , who will take its place ? china ’s leaders have shown their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system .
our research shows that industrial policy was successful in promoting brazil ’s competitive bioethanol industry . a massive stimulus package prompted by the 1970 ’s oil-price spike gave rise to entirely new industries . ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the country ’s current light-vehicle fuel demand , and petrobras , brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest companies , expects that share to rise to over 80 % by 2020 . brazil sought to become energy-self-sufficient in a manner similar to modern efforts by other countries . but it would n’t have worked without a crucial role played by the competition .
“ a child ’s creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” states one ilo report , “ and his whole mental world is impoverished . ” the sadly , families are often the last to protest exploitation of their children . the ilo contends that children suffer enormously when it is forced to perform as “ little adults . ” indian fathers still sometimes pay debts by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistani parents have sometimes maim their children to make them beguiling beggars .
but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s ability to project political power – for good or ill – will decline in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . thanks to bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures , which have funneled into budget deficits of $ 500 billion per year , america will have to raise taxes and cut budget spending , whether or not bush is reelected . an annual military budget that has increased by $ 150 billion since bush took office will have to cut back in coming years to get the budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of us securities . japan alone has foreign-exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , much of that in us treasury bills .
to be sure , there have long been political efforts to undermine or even replace the dollar as the dominant global currency . the most seductive alternative seems to have been gold . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a “ gold dinar ” as an answer to a united states dollar system . so far , while no globally devastating monetary attacks have occurred outside the realm of cinematic fantasy . russia ’s theorist “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of fine metalon .
of course , a single short seller can not “ make ” the price of an asset ( unless it is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 , made him the billionaire and forced britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a bunch of speculators decide ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government debt is overpriced , they can force down their price , thereby forcing up their yields ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . if the attack persists , speculators can force a government to default on its debt unless it finds a way to finance its borrowing more cheaply . my profits for correctly taking this bearish view are thus € 1.65 meters – the € 9.1 m i got by selling bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had to pay goldman sachs for the six-month loan . voilà , a successful “ short ” trading .
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , both the government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in the weeks ahead . clear statements by policymakers , all of the way up to xi , have signaled that china will not allow another weakening of the economy next year , even if that means accepting larger budget deficits or easing up on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening . the slowdown in chinese economic growth this year has been due almost entirely to deliberate decisions to deleverage the banking system , cut local governments ’ borrowing , reduce excess investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices through tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed .
in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to enable the emergence of global supply chains . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . this was the age of a village blacksmith , weaver , potter and the cobbler . slaves from africa were used to grow cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped to english mills . the finished cloth was then exported .
is it to be “ always represented ” by the lone political parties ? it does not need to be “ represented ” by the lone political parties ? such obscurantism only creates a culture of stultifying the uniformity . like a blade of grassroots beneath a stone , culture knows how and in which direction to seek light . i do not know what “ the progressive direction of advanced culture ” is , but advanced culture played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out poisonous weeds campaign , ” the “ anti-rightist movement , ” or the “ eliminate demons and a evil heresy campaign . ”
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do so . uganda ’s president , yoweri museveni , followed suit when signing an anti-gay bill into law in 2014 . other leaders , from gambia ’s president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , have spoken in the same vein . indeed , the price of homophobia for gays in many african countries is painfully clear : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice . these official attitudes have caused significant suffering for africa ’s gays and lesbians .
perhaps more important , they have an insufficient voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . still , it seems that china ’s share , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decisions . that underscores a key concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it turn out to be the african development bank , brazil , and china , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda in the manner of the world bank and regional development banks such as the asian development bank ( adb ) and the african development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have inadequate access to capital for infrastructure .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that governments in recent times have tended to underestimate the adverse growth implications of fiscal consolidation . they have typically predicted that a dollar cut in public spending would reduce gdp by 50 cents in the short run ; according to blanchard , a true outcome in current conditions amounts to a decline of about $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a large gap , but also a perplexing finding : how can there be so much uncertainty ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities may suggest , economists actually know a lot about the consequences of fiscal policy , at least far more than they used to be known . until the 1980 ’s , it was routinely predicted that the so-called “ multiplier ” ratio of gdp to gdp changes was stable and larger than one .
for too long , urban dwellers have been used as pawns on a global nuclear chessboard with little concern for the full implications of playing the game . military planners who consider the use of nuclear weapons probably given scant regard for those living in towns on their target lists . making matters worse , there have been suggestions on their actual use . but , as the public is educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , that stance will become increasingly difficult to sustain . at the same time , people worldwide must stop regarding one another as untrustworthy enemies .
and the massive prosperity gap between “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to define voting patterns . moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken on growing public frustrations with the eu itself . these groups have been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given that europeans ’ majority are unconvinced that the worst is over . the influence of widening disparities among the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” with france in the center ( but heading south ) , has also been evident . many european citizens oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” ” ” the eu ’s mantra in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats ( spd ) .
no , this is far rarer and costlier : it is the pulverized white rhino horn . a half-century ago , white rhinos abounded in africa . today , the international conservation union estimates that only 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya . they raise their glasses , filled by the finest scotch in a sprinkled fine powder . not gold powder , as lesser moguls might offer , or even the purest cocaine .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent for our security , as is evident in our current struggle to defeat isis . if we are to prevent isis from learning that lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not put aside the fires of fanaticism by force alone . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit an ideology that gives the extremists their power , and restore hope and dignity to those they will recruit . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition now assembling and which the uae is actively supporting .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on the `` asymmetry of information . '' we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small imperfections of information may have profound effects on how the economy behaved . for two hundred years , economists used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – that all participants had an equal and transparent understanding of the relevant factors . they knew that information was not perfect , but hoped that a world with moderate imperfections of information would be akin to a world with perfect information . what , then , is that work about , and why did we commit it ?
we are accustomed to thinking of government transferring money from the well off to the poor . never has so much money been turned from so many to so few . the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) was not the result of a society ’s well-being ; nor did they serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did not serve the homeowners losing their homes , the workers who lost their jobs , pensioners who saw their retirement savings vanish , or the taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . under the threat of an entire system of collapse , the safety net – intended to help hapless individuals meet life exigencies – was extended generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan companies .
what matters is that the constitution requires a super-majority , rather than , say , an easily irreversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine ’s parliament adopted in 2010 to join a military alliance . this approach would be in line with the principle that american president barack obama highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month that ukraine must be permitted to “ chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – divided between inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . the practical result – ukraine ’s remaining unaligned in military and security terms – would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole . of course , ukraine ’s position may change in the future , with its cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus to abandon neutrality .
in coming years , the most important fiscal task facing east european and nis government will be to reduce the size of social spending to a more reasonable portion of gdp . in any viable long-term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , the retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ones in particular ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need . the public should understand the crucial difference between a one-time transfer to old workers in the early stages of market reform and a long run on pension policies . in institutional terms , longer-term reform should aim to shift to a pension system based on individual savings accounts , as has occurred in chile in opposed to the status quo , pay-as-you-go pension systems . political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will have to shift public attention from a looming fiscal crisis .
but that may well follow a second stage in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration begin to compensate for the one-off structural effects of new technologies being widely adopted . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little assurance regarding the timing of this scenario . and , in the third stage , the possible onset of higher inflation may catch policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive shocks that make bad situations worse . focusing too much on cyclical , rather than structural , could pose serious risks to future economic well-being and financial stability . but , either way , advanced-country policymakers must recognize that their inflation outlook is subject to a wider range of dynamic possibilities than they have considered so far .
the same goes for implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . the un ’s manifold agendas – peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism – must be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-enforcing institutional silos . a fifth step should be integrating women fully and equally into all parts of the un agenda , and not just in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ” issues . a multidisciplinary “ un team ” could be deployed in the field to crack down on departmental bottlenecks and confront appropriate challenges . groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies and be led by un operations directors in each country .
the democratic republic of congo and nigeria have the most expensive countries to end poverty . with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in its latest 2011 survey , india is home to some of the planet ’s largest in absolute terms . each is on average 38 cents per day below the extreme poverty line . in the drc , the bottom 77 % of the population is extraordinarily poor , and falls a dollar short of the poverty line , on average . for india , the cost adds up to nearly $ 11 billion of exchange-rate .
pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage a short-term orientation toward economic policy , which limits long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than the creation of markets and guaranteeing property rights . more fiscal space can be created by improving governance and strengthening the tax base , and for the poorest countries , by achieving incremental stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . indeed , when oda does not determine geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . in recent decades , however , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become more pro-cyclical , aggravating international financial and commodity prices .
the “ white lady ” is seducing a steadily increasing number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only worsen the consequences . but now the demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or plummeting . european leaders need to get serious about a european cocaine problem . the cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to the point that the united states has embarked on a major campaign against sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in internal towns , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the andes . coca cultivation has been slashed by one-quarter in the last five years , and cocaine seizures have almost doubled .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and american democratic institutions are clearly under strain . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in congress has fallen below 9 % . according to some pessimists , the american constitution was not designed to address a country ’s challenges so sharply divided on incomes , race , and partisanship . yet state and local governments continue to trust a majority of voters , and have the strength under the tenth amendment of the american constitution to strengthen democratic institutions . among congressional republicans , in particular , the “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism is undermining the federal government ’s ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want .
the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to do business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward , and near lunatic despot . by treating lukashenka as an favored business partner at the same time that the eu struggles to isolate him as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked . this is especially true when there is a chance of saving or making money . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound , so it seems . for example , for more than a decade germany ’s police force , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr were ordering uniforms from a state-owned factory in the town of dzherzinsky , named after the father of red terror and the soviet-era kgb founder , feliks dzherzinsky .
at the same time , the european central bank has unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , which has pulled the european banking system back from the brink . but political leadership has sorely lacking . finally , decisive action has been taken in december . bond yields in southern europe have been rising , along with a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear cloaked governments in european capitals . there would have been a “ fiscal treaty , ” which would reinforce the stability and growth pact , and , on top of that , entail automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members stick to such rules .
their sole recourse is to push recalcitrant firms off the exchange . but stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their rules . an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado , the stock exchange ’s special voluntary listing segment , which provides strong protections for investors in newly listed companies , supports this view . the novo mercado has dealt with this problem by subjecting disputes involving its newly-listed companies to arbitration .
new york – january is traditionally a time for assessing last year ’s developments to anticipate what the new one has in store . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . unfortunately , while we may be at a turning point for the better politically , the data that emerged over the past month do not paint a promising image of the global economy ’s short-run prospects .
and translating comprehensive universities into the specialized institutes of science and technology in the soviet union and communist china did nothing to avert economic disaster in those economies . in theory , of course , a simultaneous shift in a few countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education – with large concomitant productivity gains – could sap the competitiveness of an economy that has made no such effort . but this scenario is highly unlikely , at least in the foreseeable future . yet , again , this contradicts traditional commercial dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another . in fact , the proliferation of highly specialized european universities has failed to buttress economic growth or jobs .
first , all were triggered by a profound crisis of the social-welfare state : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , inflation , and devaluation . second , a change of government through elections prompted reform , and gave them democratic legitimacy . without a severe crisis , no significant reform was likely . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is often argued . third , the reforms require a strong leader .
indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , us corporate sector cash holdings in the united states piled up quarter after a quarter , reaching their all-time highs , and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . moreover , because companies greatly improved their operating efficiency and lengthened their debt maturities , they need far fewer precautionary savings than they did in the past . but one looks at it all , the corporate sector in advanced economies is generally , and america , in particular , is as strong as it has been in many years . but , rather than deploy their abundant cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets – which they have been very hesitant since the global financial crisis erupted – many companies have so far favored ( or pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to their shareholders . non-financial firms have touted the mix of resilience and agility , which contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments around the world that confront adequately a legacy of over-leverage .
purely from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic powerhouse whose primary responsibilities are at risk that the regime of its evil twin to the north will collapse and inundate it with starving refugees . perhaps the most compelling case of all is that of indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that has been a star performer in asia despite a global recession . moreover , indonesia has shown resilience not only economically , but also as a nation . from the american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , one that has recently vied with venezuela for leadership of a “ america in decline ” ” ” cheering section . the same applies to turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing prominence in the middle east and energy politics , nato membership , the european union ’s membership bid , and ties to its ethnic cousins across central asia .
but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , the test of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering . the bottom line is that the values matter in international relations , and states that place great emphasis on promotion of values are extremely vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . no state that aspires to win others ’ support or cooperation can afford to be seen to be comfortable with unambiguous double standards . and , worst of all , is perceived to be soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , are committing massachusetts atrocity crimes against its own citizens . a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” the ” principle is intrinsically flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five of them can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their intrinsic military strength .
already , the country ’s worsening record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-free access to the european market , provided through the bloc ’s “ all but arms ” commercial regime . this might well be good for a few , but it is bad for cambodia . the last thing cambodia needs now is to risk economic reprisal for helping chinese firms dodge us tariffs . yet that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s government plans to do . already , the country ’s worsening record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-free access to the european market , provided through the bloc ’s “ all but arms ” commercial regime .
the global economy risks getting stuck in a “ mediocre new normal ” – a prolonged period of slow growth and feeble job creation . to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . if action agreed by the leaders assembled at the g-20 in november is realized , they will lift world gdp by over 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income . more than 200 million people are unemployed , and more than two-thirds of them are now .
it endorses policies that capture accurately the relationship between the “ out of area operations ” and members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . what kind of relations should nato have with its partners ? should it undergo further simultaneous transformations and eu enlargement ? albright ’s report tries to address these questions in a balanced way . it further rightly suggests that nato can achieve its strategic political and military objectives jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms reduction verified by the non-proliferation and arms-control treaties .
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been clever and misguided . the north koreans have violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the greatest potential leverage , is most concerned about regime collapse in north korea , and thus about the threat of chaos on its borders . japan has officially endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world , but it relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent , and it wants to avoid being subject to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) . the japanese fear that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence will be weakened if the us decreases its nuclear powers to parity with china . it is a mistake , however , to believe that extended deterrence depends on the parity of the nuclear numbers .
berkeley – back in the late 1990 ’s , america ’s at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , repealing the regulatory separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and spurring ever more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why has n’t it then come ? · in the global economy ’s industrial core , at least it has then been more than 60 years since financial disruption had more than a minor impact on overall levels of output and employment . the first school of thought , broadly speaking , of the united states ’ republican people ’s party , was that financial regulation was bad because all regulation was bad . the second , broadly held that the democratic party was somewhat more complicated and based on four observations :
the democrats ’ core message over the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , everyone else loses . it is about giving even more money to the very few . concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to liberals , of course , but it should not alienate moderate voters , either , because more equality would be good for the economy . and it might even persuade some annoy , poor trump supporters , to recognize that his pseudopopulism is not about helping the left-behind folks in the rust belt towns and rural hinterlands . it is grotesque that so many people in the us who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still persuaded to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ”
but iranians have responded by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford the full-scale war and oil-price spike that would result . still , without a deal by year , a collision becomes likely . as the clock ticks down , a bad outcome becomes more likely . similarly , trump thought that he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . but neither wants to be the “ chicken , ” because that would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other side .
but the scaf now seems to have realized that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attacks by rivals . political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and lack of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . as a result , there is a growing belief within scaf that its three “ minimum ” ” demands have become both useless and insufficient . in the last two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community have made clear the change of attitude : the need for immunity , guidance , and protection from the us , not the us . moreover , the scaf has drawn carefully into the politicians and de-emphasize their relative weakness , limited capacity , notorious opportunism , and generalized inconsistency .
by the end of the decade , america will have to pay an amount equivalent to more than one-third of the income from personal-income taxes just to pay the interest on its national debt . paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than america receives from the rest of the world . that requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and to make foreign goods more expensive for american consumers . higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which , in turn , weaken incentives and reduce economic growth . foreign investors now hold more than half of that debt .
ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it will have to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , but still indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s major problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and the conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , libya , and palestine . a policy of opening up the country would thus quickly put the regime ’s existence at risk . iran is also a key player in cooling the caucasus and central asia ’s hot spots . indeed , aside from domestic policy issues and matters of internal freedom , the choice between major candidates hinges on the question of whether iran should seek greater international integration .
perhaps the most visible gains were on the external front . exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and inward foreign direct investment tripled . if ever there was a country destined to be the poster child of the new orthodoxy in economic development , it was mexico . but where it counts – on overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment . since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well below 1.5 % , and total factor productivity has stagnated or declined .
after all , many asian countries have made impressive export-led growth under the current system . and bilateral or regional trade deals may chip away at some of the barriers in the current global system . a fundamental problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade is constantly evolving , with existing agreements having only limited adjustment capacity . even if asia succeeded by relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , especially in africa , can realistically export only agriculture and textiles . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever larger share of global output ( now roughly two-thirds ) , and further expansions , require major changes in existing agreements .
most of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in a variety of ways , and generate signals that travel to a spinal cord , and from there to a brain . from there , researchers believed , signals went on to the part of the cerebral cortex that managed body awareness , and somehow the cortex turned them into conscious experience . she reminds physicians that for a person suffering from intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else is a powerful negative emotion . a contemporary non-medical writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness ; an ability to annihilate complex thinking and other sensations ; an ability to destroy language ; and strong resistance to objectification . for many years , researchers thought that these signals traveled along several well-defined routes to reach a relay station in brazil called a thalamus .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists carried out an abrupt volte-face , and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale . the first stop was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , where two french socialists , jacques delors and pascal lamy ( european commission president and his assistant , respectively ) , led the way . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was a key event that set in motion by developments that ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movements as the global norm . then it was the turn of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( the oecd ) . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another frenchmen who served as governor of the bank of france under mitterrand .
de gaulle ’s face was drawn the next day , but he was resolute and full of energy . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric , aided by the fumbling of the rebels , established the state ’s primacy . within 15 minutes of the general ’s face fading from screen , 40 army units in algeria declared their loyalty . the men at the barricades were persuaded to leave their stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaped to spain . the defeat of the military revolt was the first time that the paris republican authority was asserted over the pieds noirs who helped bring down the fourth republic .
did the israelis really want a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , the potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of a recognizable palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal court for war crimes ? if not , why are they so ham-fisted ? israel seems to be making the same mistake that others have made . palestine ’s diplomatic promotion offered it a lifeline . it has been proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilians does not break their morale and turn them against their own leaders , however terrifying the regime .
the un will play a central role in the reconstruction of a working government in that country and in coordinating the humanitarian assistance of the afghan people . fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded rapidly on the ground , but has led to a diplomatic breakthrough as well . the un ’s growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism and helps to reassure many countries that this is a matter of true international efforts , not just that america is acting alone . while these seem to be a grab-bag of successes , they point to a single message : the global community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession . the un ’s growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy over the global fight against terrorism and helps to reassure many countries that this is a true international effort , not just america acting alone .
aside from barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in the global electoral marketplace that differs very much from what is usually called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming elections this year are like a soccer match between the big teams where supporters of one candidate and another are distinguished solely by their shirts ’ colors , as the strongest teams accept the rules of the game , and even the tactics are similar . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the coldness of the electoral landscape is closely related to one reality : the “ irrelevance ” of politics , owing to its “ financiarisation . ” in other words , there is no longer a battle between different projects in any modern country , not a left-right confrontation ( with its nuances ) that may raise voters ’ emotions . here brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay .
but the most important changes must come from within the media industry itself . violence against journalists has historically been an issue that has remained behind headlines . if journalists use their platforms to inform the world of the dangers they and their colleagues face , the world will have to listen . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ ’ employees , freelancers , and audiences , these organizations should report the topic . with attacks on the press increasing , the old approach – prideful silence – no longer makes sense .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders achieved the millennium development goals ( mdg ) of cutting the world ’s share in the poor to half of its 1990 ’s levels – five years ahead of schedule . but the world bank ’s poverty line of $ 1.25 per day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , which are used in measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal , is not the only relevant threshold . after all , poverty is not an unchanging attribute of a fixed group ; it is a condition that threatens billions of vulnerable people . despite their shortcomings , income arrangements are useful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . but rising unemployment and falling incomes are undermining the enduring threat of poverty worldwide .
and the structural reforms these economies need to boost their potential growth too slowly . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effect of productivity growth of years of underinvestment in human and physical capital . while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising public-debt levels ; a loss of competitiveness and slow decline of unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does not help ) ; and exceptionally tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . and the abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties keeps private investment spending in check . the 2014 outlook is dampened by longer-term constraints as well .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is just € 23 billion . but realizing that value is a long-term proposition . more immediately , to get gas to market in europe and elsewhere , a gas liquefaction plant costing around € 10 billion needs to be built , and israeli investors have already expressed interest . but these figures must be put on the eu ’s dismal overall energy picture – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy wealth , and the funding it needs to develop it , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes .
as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline , not their country ’s profligacy . syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu ’s woes . thus , most of the television channels speak of the bailout deal just as tsipras does : as the proximate cause of austerity , the result of neoliberal dogma . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige . the new democracy and pasok are doing much the same , invading the eu , “ speculators , and hedge funds – anyone who might divert the public ’s attention from their own responsibility to the crisis .
but america ’s diminished leverage can not match the influence of the region ’s “ axis of evil . ” after all , it was tiny qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlement , egypt that mediated a gaza cease-fire , and turkey , which is facilitating israeli-syrian talks . israel ’s ’s shift in policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a powerful message to americans that they should not miss the lebanese train in the same way . lebanon is too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see their local clients ease the israelis ’ burden on the “ lebanese front ” before tackling their own grievances . nor is hezbollah keen to see israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable autonomous military force it has built with iranian and syrian help .
but with clarida ’s inputs , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflation trends rather than on the official unemployment rate and its implications under traditional models . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making up for below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during expansionary this period . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed could remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 . but clarida is still in its early stages , the fed already seems to have embraced the idea that inflation should be allowed to exceed 2 % without immediately triggering a tightening . moreover , while the fed ’s staff members tend to believe that america ’s rate of potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , seems open to the notion that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will allow for somewhat stronger non-inflationary growth .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down the plant ’s reactors ; the protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zones ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the costs of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . at the very top of that , there is the potential for health-care costs that result from exposure to radioactivity . it is governments – and thus taxpayers and bondholders – that finance the nuclear plant . moreover , the supposed cost-benefit savings ” of nuclear power never include the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and the emergency clean-up and remediation of impacted communities when disasters strike , all again , at taxpayers ’ expense . all of these hidden costs make the price of nuclear energy higher than the price of shifting to renewable energies and improving energy efficiency .
as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire , by giving the trump camp yet another opportunity to disavow the “ liberal elite . ” otherwise , they would be stifling debate . this would run counter to what universities stand for . but the clear rules of engagement are necessary . the most important principle to uphold is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone .
new york – like a mediterranean death row , europe has received another last-minute stay of execution . it will survive a little longer , and it will survive . markets are celebrating , as they have after each of the four prior european crisis ” summits – until they come to understand that fundamental problems have yet to be addressed . there was good news at this summit : european leaders finally came to understand that a bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to banks to save sovereigns , and sovereigns to rescue banks will not work . likewise , they now recognize that bailout loans that give a new lender of seniority over other lenders worsen private investors ’ positions , who will simply demand even higher interest rates .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has enabled the ecb to buy , if necessary , unlimited amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , provided the affected countries subscribe to the rules of the european rescue fund , the european stability mechanism . thousands of germans have appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union , which bars monetary financing of eurozone governments , and that it imposes substantial risks on german citizens as taxpayers . but , rather than issue a formal ruling that constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it may have done , the court asked the european court of justice on its opinion . the court has now declared that it fully endorses the plaintiffs ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary law .
and capital gains taxes have fallen by more than 50 % since the 1980s . when investment is in upstream basic research , spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes yield enough social rewards . but other cases might require the creation of alternative incentives . to build public investment support in higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return by channeling profits into the public innovation fund to fund the next wave of technologies . for example , some of the profits from the government ’s investment in tesla could have recovered via stock ( or royalties ) and used to cover the losses from its investment in the solyndra .
still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership teams in their own right , and the european parliament will have seated a new generation of politicians who have not engaged in previous decades of compromises and reforms . on the contrary , germany will be elected in a political environment of rage , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . if the ecb ’s next leaders do not meet them , the euro itself will be at risk . clearly , with interest rates at the zero lower bound , more monetary/fiscal-policy coordination is bound to have to .
facebook has estimated that russian content on its network , including posts and paid ads , has reached 126 million americans , some 40 % of the nation ’s population . in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed for want of effective leadership , and traditional political and military organizations have retained the upper hand . in fact , these regimes have begun to wield social media for their own ends . we have all heard accusations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , the united states . one should recall earlier accusations by russia of the west ’s role in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s financial and political support to win the presidency . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful to that choice . ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , tries to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and undermines key institutions , including the judiciary and the parliament . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful to that choice . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei , too , regrets permitting volunteers of the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november .
and it is not just the developing and emerging countries that must rethink their approach to the world . but it is far from clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interest . the point is no longer to single out of china . similar questions apply to india and brazil . the us must do so as well .
some people work harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or simply have been lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time . but i do n’t see what alternative political-economic arrangements could make individuals ’ relative wealth closely in terms of their relative moral or other merit . the problems that can be addressed are those of poverty and social insurance — of providing a safety net — not of inequality . nor should we worry a great deal that some people are richer than others . but on individual societies ’ level , i believe that inequality does loom as a serious political-economic problem .
there is also some friction among america ’s diverse regulators , and we surely need more coordination across national borders – including with europe . more broadly , however , her point is that we need the fsoc to get the job done – to look for and assess all forms of potential systemic risk . this needs to be done as technical , not part of the political process . not everyone at the sec is as rational as stein . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies , working through members of congress , are pushing back hard against the fsa and its mandate .
when the results were announced , their euphoria was overwhelming . in bucharest ’s college square , the celebration recalled the energy of 1989 ; it was the sound of an aspiring electorate , aware of its previous mistakes , and ready for a fresh start . iohannis may , too , have benefited , to some extent , from an association in voters ’ minds with the german hohenzollern kings who have ruled romania wisely and dedication over more than 80 years . the final factor driving the iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation , in whom connections to the western world have imbued an eagerness to see real democratic progress in romania . and , indeed , upon learning his victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to king michael i ( the hohenzollern prince until he renounced the title in 2011 ) .
while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate skills , the country ’s higher-education system does an abysmal job cultivating their talents . for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete , with skewed toward rote learning of theory , at the expense of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills . educational attainment in the social sciences and humanities is especially deficient , owing to a lack of investment in such disciplines and excess political control over curricula . as a result , china is graduating from colleges and universities , having learned relatively little about the outside world in fields such as anthropology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will be unable to produce enough highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest .
japan has committed to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . finally , global economic conditions will compel even more restructuring upon japan . while export-led expansion has delivered growth in this century , import substitution , and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will lead to increased productivity in japan in the next . imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment ; imports will inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
i believe that the west can learn a great deal about what to do by studying the policies pursued in the world ’s only two mid-development moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . both countries combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job creation in manufacturing jobs ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy given its proximity to violence-prone algeria . egalitarian development of that sort is the only viable answer to the problems of the moslem world ’s mal-development . but it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for several reasons : it does not supply an ideology compelling enough to compete with fundamentalism , which has captured at least two generations in the moslem world .
halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) , which excludes food and energy , has headed down just when it was supposedly going up . for an american economy widely presumed to be approaching the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as a rude awakening – in particular the us federal reserve , which has pulled out all the stops to get inflation back to its 2 % target . new haven – yet another on a long string of negative real inflation surprises is on hand . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was basically unchanged , holding , at just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level .
following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , however , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions are being turned into reverse . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen is reacting to the origins of india ’s democratic dialogue to the third-century bc of buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contrasts sharply with religious tolerance has preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar in 1590 ’s with an eninquisition that shades heretics in europe have simultaneously . our assumptions about the relative prosperity of asia and the west should also be revised . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp .
britain and japan seem to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later . japan had no corporate law until complex business finance in the late nineteenth century . yet that sequence is the opposite of what one might have expected : only after financial markets developed did those with a stake in them press for better legislation protecting investors . the core protective legal institution for outside finance , federal securities laws , did not fall into place until the 1930 ’s – decades after us financial markets grew to finance america ’s economic rise . so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational must have been in place before financial markets began operating .
from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . in spain and ireland , though , the gap reflected a construction boom ; euro accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption , not investment . insufficient spending was never an issue at all . but , by 2007 , greece accounted for over 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , the largest such gap in europe – more than twice that of spain and 55 % higher than ireland ’s .
it may be up to elected policymakers to identify the inflation target , but the means deployed to achieve that target are left to the central bank ’s technocrats . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when issues are technical and do not raise distributional concerns ; when a log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discounting on future costs . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians , and must provide accounting when they miss goals . true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by reducing the discretion of elected representatives . independent central banks provide a powerful illustration of this .
while the central bank bears a good part of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , most notably from the ministry of finance . otherwise , the gains from competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation . first , it is important to recognize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not just a central bank ’s problem to fix . that means that there is a major responsibility to the fiscal authorities : target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for real exchange-rate depreciation . maintaining a competitive currency requires increasing domestic saving relative to investment or reducing national spending relative to income .
one can be reasonably certain , however , that jolie ’s decision changes the roles available to her as an actress . just as global mass media have received her choice , it is nonetheless extraordinarily difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – much less physically “ flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also as a fantasy sex object . there is something about the narrative – a sex symbol that is sacrificing her fetishized breasts for her children ’s sake , with her husband remaining by her side – that is deeply construed to women in western culture . but the real significance of jolie ’s story is its context : a wave of female and male , in very different settings around the world insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame . jolie has refused to treat mastectomy like scary or tragic , or , as making her “ less a woman ” in any form .
some depreciation can be managed by most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could ensue if a domestic currency loses too much value too quickly . it is this danger that sets a practical and political limit to a flexible exchange rate . to prevent such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate must be managed – and , in a manner that depends on a country ’s particular circumstances . large net central-bank reserves can help ease the process . private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting pressure on public finances would compel austerity , thereby constraining consumer demand and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets .
free speech is more firmly protected by law in the us than anywhere else in the world . but barr ’s cancellation of the show was , of course , not legal decisions . the limits of free speech are not just legal . entertainment companies , or mass media , are highly sensitive to public opinion . people tend to be fired , for commercial reasons , if something they said is deemed offensive to a large number of people .
in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced the arab human development report , written on behalf of the un development programme and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world in large part behind other regions in key measures , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as economic and social development . disturbing trends , such as the demographic youth “ bulge ” combined with a high youth unemployment rate -- reaching nearly 40 % in some places -- highlight potentially explosive social conditions . not one has a muslim majority in the world . this phenomenon has been noted in the muslim world as well .
but , in the face of the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their real influence . then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . in terms of security , europe remained dependent on the us . institutionally , this division of labor was manifested in nato and the eu . but on the economic and technological fronts , europeans regained their sovereignty .
he soon sponsored the unveiling of the bust of the assassinated israeli premier yitzak rabin at brasov . for the occasion , tudor wore a yarmulke , discussing his " philo-semitism " for more than two hours . he announced his hiring of eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his presidential campaign . " the jews " were not his enemies any more . but tudor did not stop with prolix apologies .
and autonomous african investigative journalists have often exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . but those with authority know how to fight – and pull their punches . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is being undermined , suppressed , and even dismantled . in kenya , for example , a leading local newspaper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payments from the national youth service . further investigations in the nys revealed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest .
one key lesson is that the chinese stock market remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( rather than the state ) that will identify and support a unicorns . nonetheless , china has already begun to build a more innovative manufacturing and internet-driven retail sector , and the state can still play a role in fostering innovation . china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , and the lessons of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process , driving the next phase of economic reform . but , as the government determines how to offload its massive stock holdings in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that such efforts are financed by equity , not leverage , thereby enhancing the market ’s balance and resilience .
strict adherence to constitutional provisions in any such eventuality is an imperative . here , the absence of free media is particularly alarming , and does not bode well for free and fair elections . his sudden departure due to illness may produce a political vacuum that could become conducive to the power grab of one form or another , such as a military coup . it is crucial that the opposition can freely air its message and target prospective voters , a point not lost on the chávez regime , as it seeks to curtail further opposition ’s ability to reach out to voters . the recent attack on the globovision , venezuela ’s ’s ’s only survivalist station , stands out in this regard .
during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked at big , lumbering central banks as cash cows , long on money , and brief on financial acumen . george soros once made billions of dollars off the bank of england in a mere hour . his underlying strategy was the standard one : bet against any central bank trying to defend an inconsistent macroeconomic policy . what a difference a decade makes . traders did not win every battle , of course .
yet , contrary to expectations , household consumption growth has remained lackluster , with firms failing to ramped up investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely exceeded the level it attained at the end of last year , and much of the increase has been driven by the goods that have been produced but not yet sold . the prevailing explanation – a brutally cool winter – wears so thin that everyone should be able to see through it . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , a sense of excitement about the future is missing , despite all gee-whiz gadgetry that now surrounds them . american consumers , after all , remain scarred by the crisis .
to succeed , more than € 30 billion or 1 % of gdp will have to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband internet network , up to international standards will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework could help spur . while some of this money will come from public budgets , the vast majority will have to provide the private sector with the resources . nowhere is the need to overcome financing bottlenecks more evident than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . regulatory reform is also needed to boost support for startup companies – an area that germany is notoriously weak , reflected in hardship such companies face in obtaining venture capital .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that china actually surpassed the us in ppp terms in 2010 . the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy would overtake that of the us in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income , using a set of international prices applied to all economies . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , larry summers , shows that global economic leadership would pass china in 2014 .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensibility and vulnerability . a balance of energy imports and exports is only a first approximation of independence . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockade of the strait of hormuz , could still inflict damage on america and its allies . but one should not jump to conclusions . america may be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy , but oil is fungible , and america ’s economy will remain sensitive to shocks from sudden changes in world prices .
the amazon and indonesian rainforests are burning , and climate catastrophes such as typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon . that downturn is complicated : an economic crisis combined with a financial crisis . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . the bottom may be near – perhaps by the end of the year . the bottom may be close to – perhaps by the end of the year .
tackling the world ’s environmental and ecological problems , and improving the lot of those left behind , will require public action , such as that i have overseen in my roles at the world bank , the united nations , and british governments . but when that competition is not carried out responsibly , the opposite can happen – and , in many cases , it has . in seizing the opportunities of globalization , firms have often neglected the developed-world workers they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation . in my own career , i have seen firsthand that growth fueled by business competition in a globalizing world can do far more to fight poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs alone . but it , too , will demand participation in entrepreneurship .
but it would be an incendiary move . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his tenuous opponents into overcoming their differences to stop a no-deal brexit . and , because it would reverse the result of the 2016 referendum , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite pitching remain against no deal . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed out of british politics . many leavers would see it as an anti-democratic coup .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a ocean special representative , tasked with improving ocean governance , and ensure that sdg 14 are realized . such a representative must be given sufficient resources to do the job . the ocean has suffered decades of abuse and neglect . the us has financed its destruction , with no regard for the consequences . it has been treated like a free-for-all and race-to-the-bottom buffet .
when crops fail , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing burden of debt ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide , as more than 11,400 had done in 2016 . that is the last year for which there are official data on farmer suicides , but media reports suggest that the numbers have been growing ever since . the bjp government ’s greatest neglect of agriculture has been the country ’s smaller-scale and marginal farmers , as well as landless farm labor . these groups were dealt a body blow two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . daily wage workers , traditionally paid in cash , lost out to the millions because the replacement currency had not been printed in adequate terms .
and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that task : the rate of extinction . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , there may be about 10 or perhaps even 100 other unknown animal , plant , or funes . with six billion humans and calculate , and our individual consumption growing , we face enormous challenges in using our natural resources sustainably . and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that task : the rate of extinction . for every person in the world ’s 10,000 bird species , there may be ten or perhaps even 100 other unknown animal , plants , or funes .
and , finally , perhaps most important , they allow their users to perceive patterns and opportunities that are impossible to discover through traditional means . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to teach . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of numbers of computations per power unit on “ unstructured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than the best man-made machinery . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , ceo of the digital power group . with systems growing in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture seems to be reaching its limits , as power soars and transmission delay among components becomes increasingly burdensome .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system of common deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the danger of a run on banks in times of crisis . while this argument holds true , the critics emphasize risk mismatch , owing to the high proportion of bad loans on bank balance sheets in some countries . while the share of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries is just 2 % , the most recently published statistics of the international monetary fund , from last april onward , a share of up to 11 % for spain , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece . to address this risk disparity and move ahead with the plan , the ecb will need to clean up before considering the next step .
this sets a dangerous precedent , because it creates powerful incentives – the winner takes all , the loser goes to the prison – for ruthlessness . it is hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s case plays out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her , or to the forces that want to exclude her from politics forever . she is in prison , because she has lost that power . until recently , ukrainian leaders were accustomed to more efficient means than a prison sentence for dealing with odious opponents . in 2000 , for example , the journalist georgiy gongadze was kidnapped and beheaded after publishing online reports on high-level government corruption .
undoubtedly , there is a strong case to be made for a universal , impartial application of values . for innovation is what creates wealth and employment , despite -- or , rather , because of -- competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor by increasing demand for their goods . this virtuous circle still sees globalization 's enemies as being vicious in reality , encouraging exploitation by the poor and vulnerable . it is here that questions about universal principles of justice and human rights enter the debate .
that is why abe was the first foreign politician after british prime minister theresa may to rush to congratulate trump on person in 2017 . like italy , japan was on the frontlines of the cold war . in some important ways , japan has benefited immensely under america ’s wing , as well as from the postwar constitution , which is not only pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had in the past , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression . but the democracy that americans remain proud of installing after 1945 has also been hindered by american interference . constitutionally unable to engage in military adventures , except as a highly paid goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like western europe , could concentrate on rebuilding its industrial power .
nobel prize winners like edward prescott have no business talking about the benefits of tax cuts , without pointing out that a tax cut accompanied by spending increases is not a tax cut at all , but rather a tax shift onto the future – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all of this economically legerdemain has been magnified by tv , print , and internet journalists . but much of the problem stems from under-briefed , undereducated , and uncurious , the press corps . aside from a small number of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that anyone reading or listening to english-language media coverage of the campaign could have learned anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policy was probably better for america . the economics profession bears part of the blame for this .
so far , they have failed abysmally on institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . neither violence nor terrorism , nor reliance on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the us , and the european union ) , have succeeded in delivering the statehood that a people can achieve only by their own agency – what the zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” it may just be that the palestinians are on the verge of a new chapter in their history – and in the history of israel and the entire region as well . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of the majority of palestinians , yet since 1948 , when the united nations proposed partitioning british palestine into two states , both jewish and arab , failed to move from ideology toward reality . fayyad is the first palestinian leader to emerge from the fatah movement , and may thus understand what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence .
in 1592 , japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought 1894 ’s sino-japanese war to prevent japan from dominating korea . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , fought alongside korea against the japanese army . any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also alleviate china ’s geostrategic concerns about the future of the korean peninsula . for centuries , china feared that the peninsula could become part of a chain of encirclement , or serve as an invasion route .
but it is a slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . the “ official ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus labels , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or change a large but unforeseeable number of human jobs . at the same time , embracing new technologies is viewed as necessary for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success . thus , disruptions to existing patterns of work should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” by adaptation to education and social-security systems to automation-driven needs .
yet the ultimate impact of science and technology depends on all three factors . first , development , sustain , and utilize local capacities and management . developing scientific and technological capacities is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . so african nations must invest in scientific and technological education and training . at the same time , each nation must develop strategies offering researchers and technologists local employment opportunities .
they must be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of its leadership and a full overhaul of its governance structures . a code of conduct on the field , where we expect players to give their all under clear rules that are swiftly enforced by independent referees , is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . in this sense , fifa is no special case : all non-profit and for-profit organizations around the world are expected to adhere to this code of conduct . and that is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade from view . fifa is as complex as any large multinational private or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect that .
even a few grand titles have either closed down or publish only online . in the west , young people have largely dispensed with home-delivered physical morning papers , and instead catch up on the news whenever they choose , using tablets , laptops , or mobile phones . in the united states , the number of full-time journalists has dropped by 20 % since 2001 . as advertising revenues have been vacuumed by facebook and google giants , newspaper profits have plunged . the industry has faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often having laid off large numbers of staff , particularly in their foreign bureaus .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after the 1973 coup , and iran after the 1979 revolution . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge at any time , much less during a period of profound economic crisis . but that still turned out well : bosnian immigrants fared roughly as much as the swedes have received them , enriching our societies . in the new century , refugees have come increasingly from the middle east and the horn of africa . for decades , swedish industries have relied on immigrant workers .
google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion occurred last year , compared to just $ 3.3 billion in 2014 – including softbank purchases of the brazilian <UNK> tor-design firm arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase of nxp semiconductors . one-third of these companies have acquired a tech company since the beginning of 2015 . another study by the boston consulting group emphasizes that many of the small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic and nordic countries – rank well above the us in so-called “ e-intensity , ” covering it infrastructure , internet access , and business , consumer , and internet-related engagement . moreover , foreign firms are rushing to exploit european tech talent .
this presents xi with a real challenge . he has risen to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp . so far , the public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . the “ china dream ” is no exception . after ten years of government by the slogan , the chinese public wants substance .
in the us , president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . demonstrations are starting in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials . against the advice of his economic advisers , trump announced across-the-board import duties on chinese exports . china ’s government decides that it can not risk further strife and announces a package of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoffs , including outright financial support for exporters and interference in the currency markets , to weaken the renminbi . the combination of financial contagion from europe , which has already led to a severe credit crunch , and a sudden flood of low priced imports from china leaves the romney administration in a bind .
that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms , enacted in 2010 , have not been stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of that legislation ( there is currently a huge fight around the “ volcker rule ” that constrains proprietary trading by megabanks ) . why would the administration continue to bend over backwards to be lenient toward top bankers on such occasions ? i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – payments made to individuals or even political campaigns . and , in this case , it does not even seem to reflect the lobbying power of the big financial players . but mortgage lenders ’ criminal activity is another matter .
the international community has been unable to achieve any unity of action , much less agreement on a way forward . in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia – including the effort , in its aftermath , to recognize concepts of universal justice – has applications in the contemporary world . like bosnia , syria seems hopelessly divided among warring factions , and the violence there seems to be unstoppable . indeed , those to recall the bosnian war may find many features in syria today . of course , there are also important differences .
some american strategists advocate a largely technological solution to this dilemma . their approach , a concept known as the “ air-sea fight , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by the proliferation of precision-strike weapons . iran ’s possession of precision-strike capabilities , for example , and a far more hostile relationship with america , would warrant new american initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerability . officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of the “ air-sea battle ” against any particular country . given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign interference , unilateral us efforts to maintain overwhelming offensive supremacy would only trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race .
should she assume an important role at this stage ? or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? ms. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge she needs . her advice takes her opportunity at work , and also to find happiness in marriage and child . ms. watanabe has a talent for seeing how the tide turns .
a positive sign here is the european bank ’s recent decision for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to complete rivne nuclear sites and khmelnytsky , which compensates for the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . the euroatom is also helping with a $ 585 million loan to finance repairs at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear facilities . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : in addition to closing chernobyl , the us will introduce western nuclear safety standards and renew cooperation with the imf through its extended fund facility program . although we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything alone . international support for our efforts is crucial .
of course , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy but revolutionary agitation . russia ’s people wanted to make the distinction and curiously they did : their energy and cohesion put an end to communist rule . although there is nothing like soviet oppression , the alienation between state and society resembles that of soviet days . out of this sea of democratic emotion new political institutions were expected to emerge . instead , political life here was reduced to a mere formality .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we knew phenomena , but failed to grasp interactions , partly because politicians and analysts are reluctant to anticipate ruptures : the familiar holds them to be stable , even when it is known to be problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states , and much of the west continue to regard as an island of “ stability . ” ) almost everyone was surprised by the revolts , even though political and socioeconomic causal factors were well known . but some initial lessons for international politics – and for westerners , especially european foreign policy – merit serious consideration .
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow-banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to rise , and introduced new market-based challenges to the reform process . to resolve it , the government has announced fiscal reforms to split revenues between the central and local governments , allowing local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . nonetheless , because china is a net lender to the world , lgfvs have no global systemic implications . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its land and fixed assets are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that , even if asset values were written down by more than half , local governments would remain solvent . this leaves only the question of debt-servicing status quo .
the dominance of free-market ideology before the crisis allowed many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go nearly unchallenged . but when free-market economic liberalism failed during the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism may no longer be deflected by invoking impersonal economic laws . “ progressive ” social liberalism , together with a “ conservative ” free-market economy , appeared to be two sides of the same coin . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the necessary condition for economic progress , democracies nowadays seem unlikely to vote to reinstate social conditions ahead of the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . racial and gender equality are now backed by clear majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies such as trade protectionism and tight immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys .
the real question is whether india can implement strong productivity-enhancing reforms . as we predicted almost 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period for the simple reason that its workforce growth will peaked . it is equally predictable that india will start growing at a much faster pace than china , simply because its working-age population still has a lot of growing left to do . as we predicted almost 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period for the simple reason that its labor force ’s growth will peaked . it is equally predictable that india will start growing at a much faster pace than china , simply because its working-age people still have a lot of growing left to do .
by selecting his primary opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state and reaching across party lines to retain robert gates as secretary of defense , has shown openness to powerful subordinates . equally important is contextual intelligence , which allows a leader to vary the mix of such skills in various situations to produce successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” obama has continued to demonstrate these leadership skills in his almost flawless transition . during his campaign , obama showed these skills in his calm crisis-response , forward-looking visions , and his superb organizational capacity . moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics has been shaped from the bottom up with experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american politics has been shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago .
with pakistan ’s economy mired in a tailspin , and with the jihad culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in dawns , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . ” domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . even its spiritual evolution has been warped by the proliferation , popularization , and increasing relative power … of religious groups that represent an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . internationally , [ it ] diminished the stature of the country , and left its reputation smeared . ”
gref 's program , too , is emblematic of the president 's style : modernization from above -- ie , that initiated by the government and under its pressure -- is matched by modernization from below based on private initiative . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , deregulation and encouraging competition . enhancing competition will mean placing emphasis on antitrust policy and reducing state subsidies . deregulation ( " de-bureaucratization , " really ) will make life easier for new firms by reducing the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats and shrinking the number of demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also large sources of bribery ) . moreover , gref 's program seeks to create effective private land ownership .
the pattern is beginning to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , an abstract reaction , debates , and divisions , and then a gradual , step-by-step progress toward a common response , driven by the realization that no other alternative is at hand . in today ’s disagreements , the roots of a stronger union lie in the end . indeed , the eu ’s people are waking up to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting . increasingly , the eu is coming to be seen as a practical – and absolutely essential – mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet their shared challenges . the public no longer thinks the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union .
sir howard davies chose to resign as lse director , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) and took money for a school from the libyan regime . these scholars have been pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly having cozied up to qaddafi . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous stance during the uprising exposed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate posture in recent years . there is strong sentiment that the academics and institutions working together with such odious regimes , often with encouragement to their governments , no doubt , suffered a grave lapse of judgment . in other words , would i follow in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to exchange views with and advise its dictator – and paid for their services ?
in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of responding to cyber measures , or with cross-sector responses like sanctions . the administration was unwilling to take steps that might themselves disrupt the election . so , eight days before the vote , the us sent russia into warning of election meddling over a hotline , created three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents – which connects both countries ’ nuclear risk-reduction centers . because russian hacking activity seemed slow or halt , the obama administration cited the warning as a successful exercise in deterrence . but some critics say that the russians had already achieved their primary goals .
in a more protracted crisis , like that of syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with support from the international community , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay for principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank . if this initiative were to be introduced before ecuador ’s earthquake , it could provide 12 months of emergency support , helping the country until it could reinstate education according to its national plans . injecting finance , supporting a common strategy developed in partnership with governments would enable urgent education delivery at an urgent pace . once it is established , support would be made accessible to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate educational plans to provide children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed on silos . thus , the fund would fill the coordination and provision of services by strengthening the system at its weakest point , providing a bridge to longer-term development .
ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not close enough . for all of israel ’s deep emotional attachment to the idea of all historic judea and samaria , rabin recognized that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with viable , secure borders is to accept a palestinian state alongside it , equally secure and viable . they would share jerusalem as a capital , and find a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive issue of palestinian refugees ’ return . no israeli leader ever since has shown anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . rabin ’s murder was a catastrophe from which the peace process has never recovered .
but that is not what schneider and sagan mean . instead , they distinguish between matter and energy , and say that matter organized in structures disseminating an energy gradients faster than it is randomly distributed matter . as one example , they view a phenomenon of which beer drinkers have long been aware . some might think that this could be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent life were to be a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . if you want to be empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) and turn it upside , the water will emerge in uneven glugs .
we no longer have a guide , an idea of how to think about our country , how to understand it , and how to imagine who we are and who we can become . we have lost our organizing principle , and no other idea has replaced it . it has not been easy to live without knowing who we are , and it has become even more difficult to live this way as we have watched our world crumble . argentina has become a country without direction . argentina 's image as a country with infinite promise has become desaparecido , a name given to those who disappeared in the dirty war of the 1970 's .
indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone living in afghanistan , spoken the language and understood the workings of patronage and power there . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone living in afghanistan , spoken the language , and understood the workings of patronage and power there . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” have also made it clear that many of those detained and tortured were not threats to america ’s security – at least not until america ’s actions made them so . for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” agenda ( which obama has stopped ) , despite the senate ’s report ’s conclusion that the techniques it employed yielded no valuable intelligence . the week a us senate report emerged , i was reading anand gopal ’s ’s new book no good men among a living telling contemporary afghanistan ’s narrative through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , a taliban commander , and a kabul-born housewife who spent years in purdah in the taliban country .
some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same to german chancellor gerhard schröder , though they have not ( yet ! ) found a film star to replace it . several other european governments are finding themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after being elected . beyond europe , this is true even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , a latter calling for a referendum to help arrest his sinking of the popular support . electoral success , it seems , fades fast nowadays . replacing a governor whom they re-elected only a year before with arnold schwarzenegger had to grant californian voters an enormous -- if guilty pleasure .
the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market-based resource allocation and lowering the costs of doing business . china can still tap new markets through efforts like the “ belt and road initiative , ” but at significant cost . and , in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” and “ the internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base into the internet age . and , at the same time , the “ opening-up dividend ” that came to maturity , encountering protectionist barriers worldwide . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continuing to move up the global value chain , by implementing further economic reforms and targeting new technologies .
perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on poor people ’s lives found that while they received slightly more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : they did not increase savings or spending , they did not work more or start more businesses , and their children did not study more . little wonder : 170kwh is not what most of us would consider real access to electricity . and it will not help to fight the world ’s largest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which is mostly due to open wildfire , cardboard , and dung and claim a $ 3.8 million living annually . the iea expects each of the 195 million off-grid solar people to get just 170kwh per year , or about half what one american flat-screen tv uses in a year . off-grid energy at this level will never power a factory or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high rates of ncds . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in developing countries . from 1990 to 2010 , deaths and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries grew 300 % faster than the rate of the decline in infectious diseases . most health systems in these countries are not built on chronic or preventive care , and lack basic consumer protections . residents of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution , and are less likely to have access to adequate nutrition .
rather , politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional . both european and american debates have replete with posturing and tests , turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” in chicken , the two drivers race toward a cliff ( or toward one another ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of imminent catastrophe . but if neither driver concedes , both are destroyed . when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as a zero-sum game , and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , the malaise sets in .
in the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their ability to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continue to allow them to escape largely the purview of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work to prevent corporate-base erosion and profit shifting . political institutions have not kept pace with technological change and the resulting market growth . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , as human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to “ pick up ” embryos with desired characteristics . when ordinary egyptians , having organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and toppled former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , the technology sector seemed to necessarily invigorate democracy . but it soon became apparent that these digital platforms could easily be co-opted by authoritarian governments or terrorists , and used to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and generate deep divisions and turmoil across societies .
yet a key lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these do not lead to faster growth , but only to lower revenues . the increases in living standards , for example , are the result of technological innovation , which in turn depends on basic research . while trump ’s nominee has criticized the growth of america ’s national debt , he is now proposing tax cuts that add trillions of dollars to gdp in just the next ten years – not the “ only ” ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim , owing to some growth miracle that leads to more tax revenues . but federal government support for research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . tackling the panoply of other problems confronting the us will require more federal revenues , not less .
obama can use his state of the union message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy for narrowing the budget deficit to sustainable levels . this would involve reinstating pay-as-you-go rules , and establishing an independent commission to file a congressional amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and spending reform . while it will probably lack the public option that many in the us favor , this remains a genuine accomplishment . the same middle of-the-road approach can be taken in the second year to address still-outstanding fiscal issues . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial reform , where , as with health care , there is a welter of conflicting proposals .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the latest european battleground in a contest between two models of democracy – liberal and illiberal . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged civic service ( including public radio and television ) , packed the constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened her court ’s capacity to strike down legislation . in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into potential violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . moreover , standard & poor ’s has for the first time downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from a bbc + , warning of perhaps more cuts to come as accuses the government of weakening “ the autonomy and effectiveness of key institutions . ” the resounding electoral victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more similar to regime change than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments .
furthermore , in shiite tradition , the mahdi army ’s strategy , shiite messiah , will be to bully all of his enemies upon his return to earth . the regime seems convinced that there is only a small likelihood of a military attack on its nuclear program . it does not believe that sanctions can bring about its collapse . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing more frightening to khamenei and the islamic republic ’s leaders than to the social dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement brewing within the country . thus , outside forces do not seem to pose a lot of threats .
ever since , the country could have been held together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts , all put down in bloody fashions by the ruling sunni minority . it was this sunni hegemony – and not only that of saddam ’s ba’athist regime – that has been overthrown by the united states . throughout its history , modern iraq has always been arab countries ’ most repressive . saddam ’s rule was only the most brutal in a long line of sunni regimes . for their own political purposes , the british placed sunni arabs – never over 25 % of the population – in their control of the entire country , and even imported the sunni arab hashemite prince to govern over their creation .
but the sequence of amino acids that make up the protein chains in these orthologs can vary significantly . sometimes the extent of sequence identity between two orthologs can be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of function to the evolutionary pace of change . this conservation of the protein fold across species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is well known that the number of human genes deceptively small is merely one order of magnitude larger than , say , golden rice . if the structure of proteins is conserved across species , where is our complexity coming from ? proteins that retain the same function across very different species – generally the case with orthologs – are expected to keep the same fold .
president saakashvili seems to understand the necessity of reviving georgian moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . similarly , georgian ’s inability to manage relations with its only autonomous republic , adzharia , does not inspire much confidence . the adzhar people consider themselves georgian but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgia would work out any better ? georgia ’s current economic collapse provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics to support reunification .
moreover , the scots , the welsh , and iranians have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . although socioeconomic factors have played some role in the brexit referendum ’s outcome , a geographic breakdown tells a true narrative . excluding london , a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of voters in england supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots and 56 % of northern irish voted to remain . brexiteer global britain ’s fantasies focus squarely on english national identity , while diluting those in scotland , northern iranians , and welsh , who will return to serving as junior partners in a far less magnificent and rewarding english project . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity but come with divisive side effects .
in the us , we witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report calling for revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy cheap . this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” but , promisingly , and shockingly , given the rather toxic state of us politics , it attracted broad support and smart commentary from many mainstream pundits . the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does not wreak environmental havoc , and acknowledging the importance of adapting to climate change . entitled post-partisan power , ” report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in a low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and a new innovation-ity-private sector innovation network to develop an inclusive energy revolution .
everything in their countries depends on person and family rather than office . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is not as straightforward as it seems . dealing with elite interests requires ingenuity . the problem boils down to overcoming potential resistance – from both the elite and the general public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . all four north african rulers have , to greater or lesser degrees , made themselves the center of highly opaque power structures .
there seems to be near-universal agreement that he should , with international pressure on president kostunica to comply . but the decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future . many of those who agree that milosevic is a war criminal now seem to think that we should listen to the voices coming from belgrade , and their weeping that milosevic should face trial in front of his own people . they have brought him to power , if not in a way that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they have backed him , even as he has led them into genocidal crimes and defeated after defeat . ultimate moral responsibility for what was done by milosevic rests with serbia .
for starters , we are again moving into what henry kissinger called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” but , on a recent trip to israel , white house adviser dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that the israelis will not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro has handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s party an invitation to the white house . palestinians have been reassured through a message from president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that israelis would not carry out any “ provocations ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear , the palestinians acknowledged that there is no written promise to this effect .
to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( for example , singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than the democratically elected leaders ( italy ’s silvio berlusconi , for example ) . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , like zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . in the long run , however , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . the chinese model combines some of the authoritarian model of modernization ’s advantages – centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior ability to implement painful but necessary reforms – with leadership turnover through de-personalizing political struggles . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by a desire to hold the party , not any individual , in power .
but the obama administration must go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and do two more things . first , capital requirements should be tripled – not only in the us , but across the g-20 – so that banks hold at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . second , when banks are “ too big to fail , ” they must be shrunk , so that taxpayers do not have to bail them out every time a crisis erupts . that way , shareholders , rather than regulators , would play a leading role in forcing banks to behave sensibly . the dilution of glass-steagall , and its ultimate repeal in 1999 , allowed banks to engage in so-called proprietary trading arrangements , allowing them to use depositors ’ savings to trade for their own account , primarily in risky mortgage-backed securities .
others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . and make no mistake : the deal is on the whole . its collapse would trigger a nuclear-armed arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble . iran bitterest on the regional enemy of saudi arabia would move rapidly toward nuclear capabilities , employing abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow .
germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany , or even to the west , but to all of humanity . his scoring of the schiller ’s poetic ode reflects the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations . beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of hitler . the concert itself offered layer upon a layer of significance .
of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed to russian banks and firms in 2008 , the government refinanced only $ 10 billion . how , then , did reasonable economic policies prevail in this crisis ? apparently , the terms offered by the us government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target . instead , up to now , the government has mostly been lending ( high-interest ) loans rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . nor have the oligarchs been bailed out .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s luxurious , chinese-a-lago estate , at least part of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most discontented places : north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again , off-again negotiations , north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed far like the one the west faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against one another in europe . the us and its allies have successfully navigated the challenge of europe in the twentieth century without war . but , to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to adopt another policy toward north korea . when both the us and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had a way of deterring the other from striking .
for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new look ” through a selective appeal to religion – and to wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy . theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . there is a long and distinguished tradition of roman catholic social thought . but to take these tradition seriously would require a much larger shift from capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are ready to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and governance mechanisms . that is not an absurd idea , but it is not an absurd idea . for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new look ” through a selective appeal to religion – and to wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy .
postponing the second consumption-tax increase seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . but this brings us back to japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s deeper problems . demand policies alone will not alone prevent two more lost decades , much less guarantee two golden ones . the timing and tactics are the problem . fiscal sustainability requires an eventual rise in the consumption tax , and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors start doubting its willpower .
and they were willing to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his marriage to the first lady , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to porn star and others for silence ) , in exchange for his policy influence and appointments to social conservatives in the supreme court and throughout the federal judiciary . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ” unusually for her , former first lady laura bush spoke out against a policy of taking children from their mothers . typically , supine congressional republicans panicked , telling trump and his team that his policy of tearing families apart could wreck their chances in november ’s midterm elections . in fact , separating families ’ policies threatened to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers .
it is the mark of a good club that the people clamor to become members . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will spur russia ’s imperial ambitions . this will lessen russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full-fledged democracy , for it can rule an empire only as a militarized state . an ever-larger eu , including ukraine , would create a political unit with a vast population , furthering the union ’s aspirations to become a global power . but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia .
within a few years , refugees were absorbed into the economy and societies of the southern , the greek cypriot sector of the island . firms were encouraged with government subsidies and loans . schools and training centers were established . anyone visiting a greek cypriot part of the island nowadays will not find refugee camps : most of the millions of foreign tourists recognize that more than a third of the greek cypriots encounter are refugees or offspring of refugees . just as in post-world war ii west germany , much of the current prosperity in cyprus today , is the outcome of the boost that the economy has received from refugee absorption .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % per year since 2000 , may well halve extreme poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are apparent from china to egypt to greece . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy . throughout the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are becoming wealthier because they are not held to the same rules as everyone else . it is not hard to see why , and it is not hard to see why .
as its economic and geopolitical clout has waned , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . indeed , not only has it revived the cold war-era tactic of sending military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and north sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark . but the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . after all , russia is the one country with enough missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy it . russian officers have reported outright control of large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of the important debaltseve transportation center in february .
or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have a similar chance of decaying . for now , it remains uncertain which model will prevail . contrary to what many of the democratic cassandras think , the worst is not inevitable . as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err with hope than to be right with despair . ” authoritarians and populists have yet to triumphed , with democrats fighting back .
the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept the treaty “ voluntarily . ” one could dismiss this dispute as being mere rhetoric . one argues that coercion can change minds . but , using talmudic reasoning , one can also show that there are mechanisms that can – and should – be used to place pressure on parties in the interest of gaining superior voluntary outcomes . there are two preponderant interpretation of the passage of talmudic passage .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe launched in 2012 has come under growing scrutiny . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and the unemployment rate has fallen to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate profits have soared , with tax revenues rising by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 billion ) . but japan ’s current travails , which have brought a concomitant decline in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation – 24 % over the last year – against major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which has included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – have nothing to do with it .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis seems to be ending . asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 . growth in the united states and parts of europe returned . private-sector deleveraging continued , but was counterbalanced by rising public-sector deficits and debt . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows .
in a world of sovereign states , it is hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons and to deny them to others ? suppose this were 1939 , and states were debating whether the u.s. should invent the bomb . they may have argued that all should get it or none . but history depends on the paths taken . if nobody had a bomb today , it would be best if not invented .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-fueled and export-led economy to one underpinned by services and domestic consumption is firmly underway . household consumption has started to climb , even as the pace of investment has plummeted and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . and that is good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book the commercial sector by fung business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences charts change .
amphetamines accelerate the way the body works : users experience increased trust , sociability , and energy . this buzz is considered harmless : “ pills do not kill or spread hiv/aids , ” ” ” it says . part of the attraction of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient , and convenient to use ( no need for fire , snort , or smoke ) . the global market for such stimulants is estimated at $ 65 billion , and the global market for such stimulants is around the world . but what goes up must come down , as we know it .
studies of the balkan wars , and the many wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 ’s , have been launched through united nations environment ( unep ) . sadly , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to receive the attention they require . what have we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? first , of all effects depend upon the type of war and the environment . attempts have been made ever since to scrutinize and document the environmental consequences of wars .
paris – whoever wins the september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come for a major franco-german initiative . joining great britain with them in the club of three would be a good idea ; but it is out of the question nowadays . are there alternatives to franco-german leadership of the european union ? regardless of their economic conditions or confidence , or lack of it , in each other , france and germany are more than ever jointly responsible for the future , if not the very survival of the european project . britain has largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe .
the document provides a brilliant lesson in development economics : it shows how to combine the full-speed ahead approach to market-oriented reforms with urgently needed attention to poverty . in short , the budget is a model for all developing countries . when the former government lost the vote this past may , and singh ’s government came to office , there was reason to fear that singh , hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners , demanded that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their participation in a new ruling coalition . chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget puts those fears to rest . upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought to government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ’s heads the planning commission , a key body assessing india ’s medium-term public investment strategies .
for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and the russian economies might ultimately be behind the recent war there . according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp rose by 52 % in ukraine , and by 46 % in russia . that is history now : real per capita gdp growth last year was just 0.2 % in ukraine and just 1.3 % in russia . the discontent generated by such disappointment can help to explain ukrainian separatists ’ anger , russians ’ discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and support the separatists . and such fears can have severe repercussions .
which measures can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . the threats facing the world today are supranational , so that counteracting them must be supranational , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity – and thus a common interest to be asserted and defended . how can we narrow existing disparities in development and material welfare within europe ?
barcelona – after world war i , with millions of european civilians being made refugees , forced from their homelands by enemy occupation or deportation , an international regime has been developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is taking place , and this time it is europe , which has the power to provide a safe haven to desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its answers failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people tried to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 people have died as a result , more than twice that in all 2013 .
american sanctions against russia following the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental drop , and by the deployment of similar measures by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile and temporary at best . without eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective . for example , american sanctions eventually brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the united nations security council , isolated iran financially . just over a year after the iran deal was struck , it is already hard to imagine that both china or russia would back further joint action against iran , even if the deal began to unravel .
india ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil , and over the next two years india ’s diplomatic mission will open in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with oil constituting more than 96 % of india ’s imports from nigeria . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a single division of africa ; it now has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . a study by india ’s confederation of commerce and industry has identified five major sectors that can act as “ engines of growth ” to boost the indo-africa trade : pharmaceuticals and the health sector , information technology , water management , food processing , and education . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiations between israel and palestine , in which the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . this paradigm should be broadened to the geneva negotiations on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . only with a balance of negotiation guided by regional and global actors can the middle east ’s stable balance of power be achieved . to be sure , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . as a result , the goal must be clarity and balances .
milan – the word “ ” of openness has two related but distinct connotations . it can mean that something is unrestricted , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it may mean that something , like a person or institution , is transparent , as opposed to secretive . and policymakers have long had to strike a balance between the abstract principle of openness and concrete action to limit the worst effects of change . structural change can be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive . the first meaning is often applied to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not match opportunities with vulnerability ) , which have always driven structural economic change , particularly respect for employment .
faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed tried to promote growth in indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity using multiple channels , it raised financial asset prices well above what the economy ’s fundamentals warranted . the fed hoped that it would make certain segments of the us population ( asset holders ) feel wealthier , enticing them to spend more and encouraging companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” proved quite feeble . so the fed felt compelled to do more of the same , leading to a host of unintended consequences and collateral damage that i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in the city .
the first is based on studies suggesting that schizophrenia patients suffer from reduced brain connectivity . what remains unaddressed is the root cause of abnormal brain activations . the first is based on studies suggesting that schizophrenia patients suffer from reduced brain connectivity . as a result , certain groups of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and perceiving language , may begin to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . it is as if a string of orchestra suddenly decided to play its own music , disregarding everyone else .
but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal the successor deal to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . the agreement reached there must be ambitious , effective , and just , offering rich countries a way to cut greenhouse-gas emissions while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the negative impact of climate change . i have seen shrinking glaciers in antarctica and in the andes . i have seen the effects of deforestation in brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including portions of trinidad and tobago , may be under threat if sea levels rise .
since the 1990 ’s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experience . at the same time , however , problems like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have made a bad situation worse . while singapore ’s political system could not readily be transferred to a vast country like china , it represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china has developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders that range from decades of training and a battery of officials to various stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders have overseen an economic boom that has lifted several hundred million people out of poverty .
relations between the two allies have entered one of those periods of tension , which has flared many times since world war ii ’s close . the united states has vetoed reelection , advocated by france , un secretary general boutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wants to “ enlarge the role ” of the un general secretary in reforming the world body . ( on both sides of this spat , one recalls that de gaulle wanted to diminish as much as possible the un ’s powers that he contemptuously referred to as the “ thingamajig ” and that america owes over one billion dollars in past due contributions to the un . ) at the same time , washington does not even want to hear any talk of conferring on a european , because france claims , the command of the allied fleet in the mediterranean . today , it seems , nothing left of franco-american goodwill .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . moreover , increased openness to trade is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy , especially in developing countries . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which implies that millions more people lifted out of poverty . for example , a 2015 white house report found that a ten-percentage-point drop in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the gender wage gap , and that widening tariffs also reduce wage gaps based on race and immigration status . over time , free trade enables workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy .
today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade . it has far outdone shanghai – mainland china ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . but hong kong ’s advantages are now at risk , largely owing to its own insecurities . as a few commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s embrace of remarkable economic growth and development over the last few decades has eroded hong kong ’s leadership position as the center for finance , logistics , and trade . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s foreign trade , with its gdp accounting for nearly one-fifth of china ’s .
brexit is and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable . finally , remaining within the eu ’s customs union would make it impossible to restart a hard border between the uk and the irish republic after brexit . while may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , she has offered only vague suggestions concerning how that might actually be achieved . the alternatives available for the eu are either to see the uk leave its customs union or to hold the uk into a political commitment to assume british interests .
various studies show that tall men are often favored , and that corporate ceos are taller than average . a tall , handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ looks like a leader . ” but some of the most powerful leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , were little more than five feet tall . a leader ’s search for essential traits dominated the field of leadership studies until the late 1940 ’s and remains common in popular discourse today . the traits-centered approach has not vanished from studies of leadership , but it has been broadened and made more flexible .
witness the migration of peoples and religions , or trade along the ancient silk route connecting medieval europe and asia . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of englishman in london using a telephone to order goods from around the world to his home by a afternoon . but globalization today is different , because it is becoming faster and thicker . a globalization that can be defined as interdependence at inter-continental distances is as old as human history . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europe and america could communicate its own back then .
for example , the endowment or pension fund might consider basing its paydecisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a simple , weighted average of past returns , or end-period , asset values ( ordinary practice now ) . to be sure , one can argue that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately solves the problem of periodic systemic risk , and returns to the more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but i would not be betting on this course . financial innovation would proceed along with regulatory arbitrage . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resistant to regulatory efforts to eliminate it .
either technology will depend on the national electricity grid , which uses low-emissions forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public funding alongside private investment . third , america ’s recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy to get the government ’s own finances back on track . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times , while boosting wartime spending . the result is a massive budget deficit , which will expand to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
according to the international election ’s 2005 declaration on principles , credible monitoring requires that five criteria be met . second , observers must be accorded unconstrained access to all aspects and phases of the election process , as well as to all of the technologies involved . first , observers must be autonomous – financially and otherwise , in their relationship to the host country . fourth , observers must face no pressure or the threat of retaliation by any government authority . third , observers must face no constraints in meeting all bodies and political actors .
as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes evident that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most significant . they should run not only on time , but at reasonable intervals . they should be safe , too , and reasonably comfortable . this example is relevant for the politics of public services , which dominates debate in many countries because it lies at the heart of the big problems of both government budgets ( and cutting them back ) and taxes ( and reducing them ) . more important still , they should be affordable .
but people told us that they often miss , and supply land up thousands of feet or less in deep forests . distributional issues are haphazard and uncoordinated , done with little thought . hustlers are prospering , weak watch passively . we saw helicopter attempts to try aerial drops ; landing is impossible in most places . we saw forbearance workers throw packets of food and clothes from trucks , causing a rebellion .
for example , in carrying out the manhattan project ( to produce the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , the american government set a remarkable technological goal , established a bold timeframe , committing the financial resources needed to get the job done . the example of atomic bombs might seem an unpleasant one , yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to cooperate on war technology , we should n’t do at least the same thing to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , the process of “ directed technological change , ” ” ” ” in which bold goals are being laid , milestones are identified , and timelines , is far more common than many realize . the information-technology revolution that has brought us computers , smart phones , gps , and much more , was constructed on a wide range of industries , and on the government roadmaps . in both cases , the scientists and engineers delivered on time .
good relations with europe are , of course , a priority for russia , particularly economic linkages , human connections , and social interactions . russia will also benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with its leading members . but a strategic alliance with the eu in foreign and security policies remains both unrealistic and inefficient . europe will most likely continue to grow weaker rather than stronger . but anti-americanism is simply irrational for a russia that only stands to gain from an alliance with an economic and political leader .
and with the emergence of new diseases like zika – and the revival of old foes like bubonic plague , there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . moreover , globalization has compounded the danger by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . a flu outbreak like that of 1918-1920 , which killed between 50 and 100 million people , would be even more destructive today . to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to boosting health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery , and to manage chronic diseases , such as cancer and diabetes , that impose an enormous burden on their economies .
that would create room for a more uniform tax response among countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’ ability to evade taxation through a transition location . moreover , a longstanding blueprint legislated by one or a few countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments , could help promote an international dialogue on appropriate future policies toward inequality . and , if wealth taxes are to occur , instituting them now to take effect only in the future , and only if inequality becomes far worse – would preempt the perception that the rules changed after the game ended . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . the advantage of income-tax increases is that they could be based not only on current income , but on some median income over the years , and could allow investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes without penalizing those who saved more to accumulate more wealth .
my first stint in chinese prisons was tied to work that i began in the early 2000s printing and distributing tibetan-language books . i regarded these writings as important readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion . chinese authorities , however , viewed them as a challenge to their rule , punishing me accordingly . many spent years in jail for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began looking for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – the massive protests in warsaw have made headlines around the world in recent weeks . that means that judges can not be removed by legislation , at least not constitutionally . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age among its supreme court injustices , effectively forcing all judges over the age of 65 , and allowing the pis to pack the court with its own tame justices . the polish constitution stipulates an independent judiciary and sets the term for the supreme court ’s first president at least six years . yet a new law enables polish president andrzej duda to replace up to three-fifths of the supreme court of justice , including the chief justice , in 2018 alone .
back in his radical days , ken livingstone , a former london mayor , famously quipped that if voting changed anything , they would abolish it . the latest proof : mauricio funes , the fmln ’s standard-bearer – until not long ago a marxist guerilla movement , has just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anyone remembers has been ruled , dehook , or crooks , by a reactionary oligarchy . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory is peacefully accepted – as it has been so far – it means that latin america has truly come a long way . elections really turned out to shake things up in latin america .
that is why channeling dispersed knowledge into new firms requires a regulatory framework that favors genuinely enlightened and honest . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses unique information about which beneficial uses can be made , but of which use can be made only if decisions are left to him or to be made with his active cooperation . the problem is that the promise of genuine – or unique – information ” information ” ” ” comes with the reality of vulnerability to deception . the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ [ t ] here lies beyond question a body of very important but unorganized knowledge that can not possibly be called scientific in a sense of knowledge about universal rules : the knowledge of particular circumstances , and the place . that ’s why channeling dispersed knowledge into new firms requires a regulatory framework that favors genuinely enlightened and honest .
in reality , everyone is gearing up behind the scenes for the “ copenhagen 2 , ” and what those involved in the brexit negotiations are calling “ an even bigger slog . ” perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those immersed in the brexit negotiations . “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , in part because – and this may sound uncanny at first – it is all about climate change . with more than a thousand points still to be agreed , all policymakers i ’ve spoken to recently say that they can not see how a meaningful agreement can be reached by december in copenhagen . even if some sort of communiqué is paved together in december , and countries with elections looming , such as the united kingdom , push for one – it is hard to believe that it will contain enough detail or reflect sound levels of commitment to have the impact so desperately needed .
that is why addressing the consumption bias must be the top priority over the coming years . more people are arriving at the same conclusion , and those of us championing evs as one solution to climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . still , it is human nature to resist change , leaving many prospective purchasers remain hesitant . several changes are needed to ensure that growth in ev usage and sales continues . sales of electric cars have increased dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 were registered in 2016 – nearly half in china .
the success of the wto ’s adjudication system is reflected in its widespread acceptance . the wto ’s gradual marginalization would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as adjudicator to trade disputes . even when wto decisions have had serious negative effects on a us trading partner , they have generally been accepted . this represents a remarkable advance in global governance , and it is likely to be a remarkable advance . a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it .
all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from the opposition parties , particularly those that governed greece during the past 30 years , and thus are responsible for driving it to ruin . now that the greek government has delivered on its part of the bailout deal , it is time for its european and international counterparts to conclude the program ’s first review . this will allow the government to move ahead on the second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and putting the economy back on a path toward growth . it is as if they can not understand how reforms can help restart an economy with deep structural problems . most importantly , the energy market for natural gas – and the tourism rentals market – has been liberalized , and the process for acquiring investment licenses has been streamlined .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge , but a leader of foremost global power continues to launder its hands . in early november , us president donald trump signaled america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby reaffirming a decision that he announced in 2017 . notifying it came as soon as the deal was permitted , and the withdrawal will become effective the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . the united states will thus become the only country in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a real stretch to bemoan america ’s state of corporate earnings in the us . corporate tax trends , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict . far from anemic , the current gdp share of after-tax earnings is well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . while that is down from the 11 % peak hit in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts downward pressure on earnings margins , it hardly attests to the problem of chronic earnings . the commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate earnings ( technically , after-tax profits from current production , adjusted for inventories , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a robust 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 .
in england , the prescriptions of the anti-depressants now match valium at its height in 1979 . the past decade has seen a three-fold increase in prescriptions . the widespread prescription of drugs for troubled minds has always ended badly , right back to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all have proven to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial have doctors admitted that this was so . now anti-depressants -- global brands with household names -- are the problem . it is now clear that today 's anti-depressants are not the wonder drugs they have been touted as being .
in venezuela , with unemployment at 20 % , the same is expected . the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy to a less exposed external position with large ( 50 % , at least ) depreciation . in the budget this pays for the favorable effect of the devaluation on government oil revenues . most high-unemployment economies have shown little feedback from the currency collapses into inflation . of course , such measures will be unpopular with labor and the right response here to eliminate large taxes on wages so that money wages can rise without an offsetting fall in competitiveness .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing severe water-related challenges – from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , and annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 trillion – more than double the total amount of official development assistance ( oda ) . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs , and bottlenecks in poor countries . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a high priority .
but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communication linkages within their communities , and are thus the most capable of orchestrating effective partnerships to address and resolve local issues . events in france also point to the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination , and to promote social equality . when such policies fail , citizens hold mayors accountable . but all public actors , not just policing , must respond to urban problems . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are on the front lines in implementing city policies .
the american example , the world ’s only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . in europe , however , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . in the us , the welfare state is being undermined as well . in america , welfare time is now limited , and people who did n’t work for years suddenly must do so . substitutes for earnings through unemployment ( following tax adjustment ) hits 70 % and up .
zurich – repeatedly calls for a civilian nuclear revival have emerged in recent years . indeed , of the world ’s more than 200 countries , just 30 use nuclear power . in july 2010 , a total of 439 nuclear power plants , with a net installed capacity of 37,038 gw ( e ) , were connected to various national electricity grids , around 1.2 gw ( e ) more than at the beginning of 2006 . yet that renaissance never seems to have materialized . roughly 16 % of the global energy needs ( up to 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) now meet electric power .
denver – the united states ’ constitution , which turned 225 years old last summer , is a remarkable paper : the provisions of the text written in the eighteenth century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s “ advice and consent , ” ” ” ” ” ” including nomination of senior us officials . probably nobody , 225 years ago , had any idea that the number of officials deemed to require senate confirmation would eventually exceed 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete . in many cases , the process will not be pretty . one will be reminded of the implications of this in the coming weeks , as us president barack obama fills the senior positions in his second-term administration .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy and raises the same question about european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel showed , the eu as a whole could , with some of the effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard supply security as a matter of collective concern , not as an issue that each country must address on its own . for example , in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or cut consumption a little . but this sense of solidarity has consistently missed the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian facility at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives . the department of justice under president donald trump appears to be continuing this tradition .
hypothetically , switching off the lights for an hour would cut co2 emissions from power plants around the world . but , even if everyone in the world cut all residential lighting , and this translated entirely into co2 reduction , it would be the equivalent of china ’s pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . in fact , the earth hour would cause emissions to rise . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have discovered , a small drop in electricity consumption does not translate into less energy that is pumped into the grid , and therefore will not cut emissions . moreover , during the earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand will impose a reduction in co2 emissions during the hour , but will be offset by the surge from firing coal or gas stations to restore electricity supplies afterwards .
after the organization ’s 2013 election , in which the kremlin-backed membership candidates did not perform well , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on holding an election . it was then decided that to ensure “ fairness , ” a ” ” ” ” government would approve all of the candidates , despite being academics . the institute ’s work seems to center on devices reading brain activity . but it also apparently overseeing all types of construction projects on a vast plot of land adjacent to the federal security service ( fsb ) – the kgb ’s successor organization – and the federal protection service . if we keep following the scientific-money trail , we arrive in the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) that held elections last week .
so , instead of providing context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are blasting out headlines that stimulate prurience or outrage . the result has been disquieting , putting it mildly . more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has further weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence , in terms of reining in stories and verifying claims . this reinforces the incentive to engage in sensational speculation , however baseless , as has occurred in sheldevi ’s case . airing opinions is the cheapest way to fill a broadcast hour ; ranting anchors score the highest trps .
washington , dc – the informed view is sharply divided over how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . those focused on emerging markets are emphasizing accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % increase in world output . others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some are even inclined to see a possible double-dip ” recession . this is an interesting debate , but it misses the larger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 recession , governments in most industrialized countries laid out some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for big financial institutions .
consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . of course , that rate alone is insufficient to sustain france ’s current population , but it is a far stronger one than its european neighbors and near-equal america ’s . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly indicate that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france , which elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president , and that now seems poised to give his political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . of course , that rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it is far stronger than its european neighbors and near-equal that of the us .
new york – a reception in the united states and other advanced economies by thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing anxiety about rising inequality . his book lends further weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the soaring share of income and wealth at the very top . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as the growth enhancers from which all would benefit . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was widely shared , with all groups advancing , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains . moreover , piketty ’s book provides a different perspective on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii viewing this period as a historical anomaly , perhaps caused by the unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events can stimulate .
in a completely flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant increase in unemployment ) could have been avoided had the resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could quickly be used to generate exports . in the case of greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry might absorb some unemployed retailers . but the shops and showrooms can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain limited until enough time passed to build new hotels , recreational facilities , and so forth . this fall in gdp , though a natural consequence of lower imports of consumption goods , is often mistakenly perceived as something to be avoided , because it seems to imply that output is below its “ potential . ” but shops and showrooms can not be transformed easily into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain limited until enough time has passed to build new hotels , recreational facilities , and so forth .
in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to loosen fiscal policy . most observers would agree that government debt levels are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss the strategies for bringing them down . but just as fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed to call for easing , it is now being eased when conditions seem to invite tightening . most observers would agree that government debt levels are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss the strategies for bringing them down . this year , however , the united kingdom appears to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and that is assuming recent political ruptures have failed to modify its fiscal orientation , which will be reflected in the exchequer ’s chancellor of the fall declaration .
second , the 70-year period that began with the automobile ’s widespread diffusion – during which one could get close to anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in a half-hour or less – is over . before there was widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on location , with proximity to a central city or to a local railroad station carrying a premium . now , with severe congestion from major cities to a crawl , the land gradient in housing prices are steep once again . perhaps this steepening of the location gradient might have been delayed for a decade if the us had been willing to shift to denser housing patterns . and , with demand high and housing supply fixed – at least in the short run – prices go up .
in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived , and the economy is still alive and kicking . john maynard keynes famously said , “ in the long run we are all dead . ” that may be true on a long enough timeline . but it is no excuse for dismissing longer-term considerations . with austerity – that is , reducing deficits , once a recession has ended , recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but once it is , economic performance is even more stable , because the government ’s accounts are in a sustainable position .
likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to save and invest for the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . a country like china , with its high saving rate exceeding that of local investment needs , can promote investment in other parts of the world that save less , notably low-income africa and asia . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut saving , they merely sage the bad habits of american culture , which saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) second , saving and investment flows are global . a famous psychological experiment has found that younger children , unable to resist the immediate temptation to eat a marshmallow , gaining two marshmallows in the future , were likelier to thrive as adults than those who can not .
but these “ green energy ” bikes amount to the victory of empty gestures over substance and reason , which makes them the sadly representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that if enacted between now and the target date of 2030 , the global economy will cost at least $ 1 trillion annually , and possibly twice as much if politicians make inefficient policy choices . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 promises to cut co2 emissions will reduce temperature by 2100 by just 0.05 ºc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . this makes the agreement the costliest view in history . even if promised emissions cuts have continued throughout this century , the paris agreement will cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ° c. researchers at the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar temperature reduction .
intervention by two american aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated the chinese , who were forced to suspend intimidating taiwan with missile tests . an added worry , both for russia and asia , is that the russian government is losing control of the unofficial , black market flow of arms to china . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , early this year china bought two modern destroyers along with russian-backed anti-ship missiles . russia , having seen its gross domestic product decline of 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to retain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenue . shut out on transfers of military technology and hardware by the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by the “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might , and quickly .
but there is nothing typical about the pressures that are likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 . left unanswered , however , is what comes next . both obama and romney are running the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . that could take all of us to the brink of a slippery slope . china bashers typically change their tune after a us presidential election .
indeed , utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people , horrifyingly apparent in america ’s health-care debate , is now undermining the very foundation of what a modern , democratic society is . they are people who , in some ways , lacked full citizenship , who demanded it , and who redefined the political order by obtaining it . but increasing individualism – a focus on one ’s own aspirations and economic prosperity – in many countries poses a stubborn barrier to realizing that vision . today , the great challenge is to calm the fears that our traditions are being undermined ; to reach out to those approaching our lands from other countries ; and to find ways of recreating our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , we can create a sense that we belong together , even though our reasons for believing so may be very different .
but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , so the procedure is out of the question . halappanavar died from september ticemia , which her family is certain to fail to evolve should the termination occur . protests in iran put prime minister enda kenny on the spot , with activists there , like those in india , arguing that halappanavar died because of a theocratic approach to health care . the halappanavar case thus reverses western stereotype in eastern societies as preserves superstition and religious extremism . iranian abortion-rights activists point out that , legally , a life of the fetus does not take precedence over a mother ’s life in their own country ; but it takes precedence over mother ’s health – a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states .
one source of hope that arises from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him political capital to reach out to park with a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to leave historical grievances out of official policy . that explains why park has sought closer ties with china , even as south korea ’s natural regional partner is a democratic japan . all countries ’ legitimizing narratives blend historical reality and myth . but , to some extent , historical legacies can wield excessive influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices . japan and south korea can not change the past , and china can not .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , the stock market is recovering somewhat . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is gradually climbing back to its long-lived average of 16 . bank shares in particular are rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least a portion of their government-provided capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may be only a temporary improvement in expectations rather than a sign of lasting recovery , because the size of banks ’ ’ ’ ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets are probably enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs on financial claims in this crisis will be $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the euro zone , and the united kingdom , of which the us alone will have to absorb $ 2.7 trillion .
none of them can currently be found in bolivia , which means that state-concentrated money will surely be reallocated through patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off through corruption , and subjected to the social pressures of all types . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be squandered , as projects tend to pass cost-benefit analysis when funding comes from easy money , generously provided maternal nature . thirty years after the 1952 bolivia ’s per capita income remained basically the same , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of the population . conceived , perhaps with the best of intentions , morales ’s model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but it only forges the way to frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia . thirty years after bolivia ’s 1952 bolivia ’s per capita income remained basically the same , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of the population .
still , a majority of french citizens remain deeply troubled by the threat of terrorism not only from abroad , but from people living in france , often with french citizenship . and similar fears about homegrown extremism can be traced back to many other european countries . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary instruments , from cars and delivery trucks to backknives . while violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim communities , their actions have fueled growing distrust in french society . worse still , the successful military campaign against isis is raising new fears of violent extremists returning from syria .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low - and middle-income countries , have shouldered substantial costs , despite a strain on their education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from the national education system , or assign them to separate facilities . achieving the needed educational transformation will require far more financing than is currently on offer . as it stands , the global annual funding gap for education amounts to almost $ 40 billion . this entrenches a disadvantage in preventing social integration . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees adopted by un member states last december point the way to address this challenge .
africa , with its huge and often untapped markets , must follow the same path . africans themselves must tackle these challenges , but our international partners have an important role to play . the debate over the failure of international aid to generate development alongside the current financial crisis has added weight to arguments against development assistance . but the argument should not be about whether to provide aid – no one can question the many successes that aid has brought , or its importance in providing a safety net for those who would otherwise be left to suffer . the international monetary fund credit asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it agreed to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction between the united kingdom and the united states . in fact , the us is advocating a flawed approach . in the uk , the diplomatic spat served as an occasion for the british press to air criticism from those who believe that the government should adopt a stronger stance toward china . the white house released a statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to push for acceptance of high standards . and one senior us administration official was quoted as accusing the uk of “ constant accommodation with china , which is not the best way to engage in a rising power . ”
indeed , it is difficult to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . the socialists blame greedy financiers , but who do not ? in terms of remedies , the socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solutions now being proposed by the far right . french president nicolas sarkozy ’s attempt to rekindle growth through a protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and vast investments in public infrastructure , so what more can socialists ask for ? since george w. bush showed the way toward bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room .
the burden of adjustment can not fall exclusively on deficit countries – unless , that is , the moral component of “ punishment ” membership . core countries , led by germany , mistrust the over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reforms if their financing terms are relaxed . they also demand faster implementation of the necessary changes to the eurozone ’s economic governance to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . moreover , they oppose key changes in the eurozone ’s economic governance . a prolonged recession punctuated by high or prohibitive borrowing costs makes achieving either fiscal or reform goals increasingly difficult , if not impossible .
this does not bode well for any future peace process . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance a russians whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . for example , it has recently raised eyebrows within nato , yet again , by purchasing new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries . that , in turn , does not bode well for any future peace process . when historians look back on the syria conflict , both former presidents barack obama and donald trump are praising isis relentlessly .
one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis was the elevation of the g20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is a far more representative international leadership forum than the g-7 ever was . space at the table for china could be obtained if european countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire monetary union . there is , however , a downside to the emergence of the g-20 : a large number of participants can make it harder to reach the agreements and get things done . the uk is simply smart when it fosters its own interests by cooperating with china . a new g-7 needs to be created within the g-20 , thereby giving china a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight and requires it to assume a commensurate share of global responsibilities .
this leaves a range of options for choosing the next wbg president . an american might choose an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , has touted his koreans ’ origins during his 2012 post campaign . it could choose a dual national or immigrant , such as former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become a american citizen . or it could back a un-american candidate from an allied country . what matters is that the nominee enjoys american and american trust , and that can reconcile countries ’ diverse interests in a true spirit of multilateralism .
chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance the chinese narrative ” globally . and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s sphere of influence . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for complex coordination , has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” to prosper . these include networks like silks and individual think tanks , such as the charhar institute , which has also recently established the “ “ china-us national committee ” of relations . in terms of shadowy influence-level trends , china ’s actions have been particularly related .
“ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] hat has to subtract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ” but the current high level of oil prices has led forecasters to start reining in their expectations for economic growth . world oil prices have crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since climbed to the mid – $ 50 . today ’s oil prices are still just two-thirds the real peaked during the iranian revolution of 1979 , and futures markets expect the oil price to fall back and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel .
and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-controlled international financial system , as well as shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the dollar . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-controlled international financial system , as well as shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the dollar . now the new legislative proposals threaten to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , restrict chinese venture capital investment in the us , and force some chinese firms to delist from us stock exchanges altogether . cross-border data and information flows will also be restricted , raising concerns about a “ splinternet ” between the us and china . the us has also grown more suspicious of us-based chinese students and scholars , who may be at odds with the theft of us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage .
american debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without a sinking dollar . next year will almost certainly see a massive rise in american corporate defaults , even as many firms enter a recession with relatively strong us balance sheets . with tax revenues collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes , dozens of american municipalities may well go into receivership , as new york city did in the 1970 ’s . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch a country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape .
well , if the top nine donated their earnings , it would be the equivalent of about three months ’ income for the us bottom billion . how much do america ’s highest income earners make compared to the world ’s ’s ’s ’s one billion poorest individuals ? collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped their entire national income of more than 100 countries . to put these astronomical figures in perspective , i had gabriel try to affirm that to be among the top nine earners in the united states , you had to pull in at least $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping . that amounts to $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 per hour .
but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . american power is , instead , seen as resting on a pillar of inspiration ” rather than a “ pillar of action . ” us secretary of state john quincy adams , for example , famously proclaimed on independence day in 1821 that the united states “ does not goes abroad in search of monsters to destruction . ” she is the well-wisher to the freedom and independence of all . she is a champion and vindicator of only her own .
posters bear ’s heading : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a line from the polish jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . of course , peta was not arguing that the holocaust ’s victims ’ fate was banal or trivial . by contrast , it benefited the holocaust , which we would all agree was utterly horrific – to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer has , that there are parallels between the way that nazis treated jews and how we treat animals . the court ruled against a united states-based animal rights group people for their ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photographs of holocaust victims with photographs of animals in factory farms and slaughterhouses . according to the court , germany ’s laws on freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s campaign , because to “ “ make the fate of holocaust victims appear banal and trivial ” was an offense against human dignity .
rather , they are fighting to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether they are operating a dairy farm , or run a government . as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to advance human and environmental wellbeing , that distinction is vital . avoiding barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides . for example , as machines become increasingly capable , robots are replacing a growing number of workers . it will not be long before those robots will be able not only to perform more complex tasks , but also to learn more quickly than workers can train .
this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of output for greece . moreover , the lack of export-led growth has made fiscal adjustment far more difficult . today , portugal is ahead of almost € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) , and the us federal reserve is paying more than $ 100 billion . lack of export growth thus turned a recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would . if greek exports rose at the same pace as those of portugal ( or spain ) , the recession would have ended by now .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . on the rare occasions when trade sanctions were used for non-trade reasons , they were a measure of last resort , as was the case with apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support . in other words , a trade weapon was being deployed neither to address the trade issue , nor as part of a legitimate sanctions regime , such as that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . in other words , a trade weapon was deployed neither to address the trade issue , nor as part of a legitimate sanctions regime , such as that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . once trade measures are used indiscriminately to advance non-trade goals , the damage to the entire trading system is done – and can be enormous .
new delhi – according to united nations population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and learned articles , including conventional and dire malthusian predictions . after all , the un predicts that the world ’s population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 and surpass ten billion by the end of this century . such forecasts , however , misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth .
in exchange , the kremlin has pledged to support – but only after the constitution is changed , ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as over its border with russia . in theory , the negotiations are playing out between the government in kyiv and the leaders of the separatist regions . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade insurgent governments to cooperate . the european union applies pressure on all parties , including russia , where it holds out the possibility that economic sanctions will be lifted as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s support in a un peace effort . if , however , russia really is in full control of separatist regions , and is actively integrating them into its economy , as a document gathered by bilaterally suggests , the kremlin can no longer be regarded as an outside party , attempting to influence an uncooperative ally .
nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s ’s ’s highly sobering use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 and the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , leading it in a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring regional balance after saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in doing so , the american people embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and helping democracy take root across the arab world . the result has been an utter failure : military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s moral standing . in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic allies , after manipulating false assertions .
one of the ungest claims made in debates about social insurance now roiling the world ’s richest countries is that government-sponsored defined-benefit pension programs ( such as america ’s social-security system ) are outmoded . such programs were fine , an argument goes , for an industrialized economy of the great depression and post-world war ii generations , but they have become obsolete in today ’s high-technology , networked , post-industrial economics . advocates of this argument propose a different model . just as corporations today are much happier supporting worker pensions by contributing to employee private accounts , governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . the value of such accounts would fluctuate with the market , rather than depend on defined-benefit schemes that ensure a fixed real sum of the resources available through retirement .
indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in the greek debt ratio , is largely the fault of the misguided troika ’s programs foisted on it . does anyone in their right mind believe that any country would voluntarily put itself through what greece has gone through , just to extract a free ride from its creditors ? so it is not debt restructuring , but its absence , that is “ immoral ” . when there is moral hazard , it is on the side of the lenders – particularly private-sector – that have been bailed out repeatedly . if europe allowed such debts to move from the private sector to the public sector , a well-established pattern over the last half-century is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences .
while some european countries suffer high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policy ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do better . employment considerations are not a major issue , either . if europe , china , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , which they would simply reduce their own gains from trade without reaping any of the advantages of protectionism . neither scenario makes a lot of sense today . europe and china are not particularly keen to depressing world prices of their imports or the resulting revenues .
this is the view of many in syria , even among the insurgents . it is also the view of the majority of people in the us . saving obama ’s honor hardly seems worth that risk . perhaps it is even obama ’s view himself that he is playing for time , desperately turning over the approval of an attack on syria to the american congress . it is the view of the majority of people in europe , too .
but we tend to retain into adulthood the same view of god that we formed in childhood . an old man with a long beard watches over us , and most of us retain a fairly literal view of the stories of his son told in the bible ’s ’s ’s new testament . it is this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens come under attack . and , with such a goal , it is not very difficult to poke holes and a pile on a ridicule . leave aside an even stronger case for making an even stronger case against godlessness – remember the atrocities of the twentieth century ’s atheist totalitarians – and consider the assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means denying science and reason .
their preferred model calls for the un to provide funding and most other support for the mission , while allowing the au to maintain its leadership role . but the un has found it hard to attract sufficient volunteers for such a force , given that foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remain predominantly african . at the same time , the complex chain of command envisaged for au-un force recalls some of the worst features of the nato-un operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . au commanders on the ground would maintain tactical control , a joint au-un command exercises , and the un would establish the force for overall strategic goals . yet many western governments refuse to place their forces under au command , owing to its perceived weaknesses , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assuming
new york – there was a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s statement after the recent meeting of the ecb governing council and us federal reserve chair janet yellen accused the advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” in other words , the emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from the advanced economies ’ exchange-rate policies , are on their own . this confirms what emerging-country institutions have known for some time . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of the third round of quantitative easing , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused the advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , the advanced economies ’ policies drove large and volatile capital flows to major emerging markets , pushing up their exchange rates , and damaging their export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as a “ capital tsunami . ”
riyadh – saudi arabia lately has drawn much criticism for its leading role in the war against houthi rebels in yemen . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against the poorest of the world . others have argued that the fight against the houthis – the zaidi shia-led religious-political movement – is just one element in a broader shia war that saudi arabia has supposedly been waging . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen , and , indeed , across the arab world . saudi arabia is not out to amis .
south korea has tightened its military alliance with the us ; japan backed down from a move to move its marine airbase out of okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer ties with the us . but , to displace the us and assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests or contain potential rivals . most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of its values and ideas ? in the absence of an answer to that question , china ’s ’s overly assertive policies have proved america ’s diplomatic boon in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia . china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics .
instead of borrowing to pay for the expensive “ school sets ” students , poles were using the eu ’s 500 + benefits . and while women ’s employment rates fell as women left minimum-wage jobs , salaries , especially for store clerks , rose sharply . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries are following suit . those who care about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families . lithuania introduced a less generous version of the family 500 + in 2018 .
to be fair , un resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . different people have read it to mean different things , and we have not . that can make a resolution easier to adopt . it thus comes as little surprise that there is still no peace between israelis and palestinians , despite countless diplomatic undertakings by the united states , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties themselves . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution , which happens when the principal protagonists ’ leaders are both willing and able to embrace compromise .
the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline -- which will bypass russia when it is completed -- can not re-define the country 's economic strategy on the scale sought by shevardnadze . shevardnadze 's emphasis on the btc pipeline also clearly reflects georgia 's pro-western strategic orientation . instead , georgian ’s long-term economic success will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit in the united states or italy . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the other side , this should become less a burden on the bilateral relationship as russia itself moves closer to nato , america , and the european union .
none of this means , of course , that an international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to forecast the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division can be overcome if the will exists . what it does mean , however , is that europe finds a way to work when it comes to foreign policy . whether an outlier is germany or another eu member state , the division need not be fatal . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas it can still act coherently , even without a comprehensive agreement .
similarly , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged by 16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years behind countries in south asia , and 21 years behind countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . in combination , gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and higher education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the developing-country average , 11 % below south asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below latin america and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was relatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs , without regard to western-style property rights .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and growing concerns about food security have sparked anxiety worldwide . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher share of their income on food , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that years of progress on poverty reduction could reverse . in the absence of solutions that are discouraging growing pressure on supplies , hunger and malnutrition will increase . the possibility of unable to put food on the table fills parents with a deep sense of foreboding . the seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting rises in food prices – a shift to higher protein diets in many countries , growing populations , greater use of biofuels , and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay .
as francis fukuyama has noted , the evolution of a capable state that is accountable and ruled by the rule of law is one of human civilization ’s crowning achievement . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” ” ” ” an imagined community on whose behalf a state behaves . that is no easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” such as financial-governance systems and procurement rules , they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do what they were established to do . and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of organizations that are more obsessed with abiding by new and burdensome processes than they are by achieving their stated goals .
this approach mirrors russian president vladimir putin ’s sumptuous trappings and immense resources to assert credit for rebuilding his country ’s national pride , particularly as he tries to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a sort of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of itself as constituting a great power . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from persuasive . by 2014 , he took over the presidential palace , surrounding himself by the guard , for example , to evoke ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments according to his – much less his country ’s – interests . turkey confronts a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
it is on most measures , several decades , if not a century or more , behind advanced economies in economic organization and income levels . and , at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , nearly 900 leading business leaders from the american , europe , asia , and africa met with new political leadership to chart a way forward . of course , intentions and results are subject to two distinct matters . president clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to americans -- typically most of africa ’s neglectful , except when in deep crisis -- the dramatic changes underway on the continent . africa has a long road ahead .
in the last hundred years , the contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) nearly annihilated europe , and the cold war could do just that . yet martyrdom are both different and dangerous . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran puts it : “ once man loses his faculty of indifference , he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into a divine the consequences , he is incalculable . ” the moment you believe “ better dead than red ” you are in trouble . dying to save your home , a family , or a country may be rational .
at a time when the world is facing so many destabilizing challenges , this would not bode well for anyone . if putin is serious about diversifying and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving his country ’s lives , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , particularly from the west . for that , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . that , in a nutshell , has been the soviet model that failed once and will fail again . russia is in no position to forge an alternative international system ; but , if putin continues to pursue an outdated and antagonistic foreign policy , he can undermine the status quo .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions throw a wrench into the wheels of globalization ? or will their growing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by fostering great equality and fairness ? ’ unions ’ rising influence is evident in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise the minimum wages of postal employees ; several american presidential candidates ’ open misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concern about labor standards . together with their political clout , the unions ’ intellectual respectability also feels like a renaissance . one way or another , the union stand as a major wild card in the evolution of our economic system in 2008 and beyond .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has spawned two key developments . first , chinese companies now dominate the global hydropower-equipment export market . sinohydro power alone , having eclipsed western equipment suppliers such as abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , argue for control over half of the market . yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity considerably , by damming international rivers embroiled the country in water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea . second , state-run hydropower industries ’ growing clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
new york – there are many recurrent debates in american foreign policy , for example , about isolationism versus internationalism and unilateralism . during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , bring down the communist system , and replace it with democratic capitalism . others regarded this as too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and the us opted instead for a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate between the “ realists ” and “ idealists ’s ” is intense and long-standing . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence other states ’ external behavior , and those who hold that it should shape its inner nature .
until last month , may has avoided defining that phrase , for fear of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . but , in her florence speech , may has promised british businesses something close to the current level of access to eu markets . she has also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets will require budget contributions , as in norway and switzerland . if britain ’s transition payments continued near its current level of € 10 billion for the next five or six years realistically needed to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , they will add up to the same amount . second , a british budget offer would be a powerful tool to forge the “ deep and special partnership ” with europe , which may claim is her ultimate goal .
many of the 52 % of britons who voted for leave want to stay in the single market , as do all of those who voted for remain . many of the 52 % of britons who voted for leave want to stay in the single market , as do all of those who voted for remain . even if may can strike an exit deal , she is impossible to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-sector trade deal in the eu under two years . there can not be a “ phased implementation ” ” ” of a trade deal that has not been finalized , so uk-based auto companies , financial institutions , and other firms that export to the eu now should start preparing for a “ cliff edge ” that may wants to avoid . there can be no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit .
for the first time , there is lively and smart debate around this issue at the heart of the middle east 's problems . a well-functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs , with schools that educate a large young population for today 's ’s inter-connected world , is prerequisites of progress . this is enormously important and healthy . an israeli-palestinian issue is crucial for all the obvious reasons . open societies are incompatible with closed economies .
this demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to predict his victory over the more talkative ponta . but iohannis different not only in his political approach ; he is an evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country . the vigorous religious assaults mounted against him during the campaign highlighted that reality ’s salience for the establishment – though the orthodox leaders who backed ponta quickly adjusted their rhetoric to promote tolerance and cooperation . the electorate seemed tired of the persistent confrontation between donbas and ponta , and , more generally , from the noisy , ugly , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s political scene had become . in its many successful years as sibiu mayor , iohannis distinguished from the charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanian politicians are used , proving a sober , laconic , and pragmatic administrator .
the dalai lama recently helped launch a series of such courses in london , developed by action on happiness , an organization i helped find . whole societies can also try to improve their happiness . how countries are governed has a tremendous impact on happiness is not at all . british prime minister david cameron has introduced the measurement of happiness into national statistics , and more recently german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to foster a citizen ’s wellbeing . some of these can be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits – like appreciating things that matter or avoiding dwelling on setbacks – have demonstrated measurable improvements in wellbeing .
more recently , there has been america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that has left at least 1,400 people dead . the new world order has given way to an order-less world , in which reliability and unpredictability have given way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle commitments . all of this raises a fundamental question : does the american people even require an overarching design for their foreign policy ? israel is but a small part of this generational pattern . if the outcome is to make its foreign policy less sound and predictable , or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding – then it certainly does not .
financial interests have opposed it vigorously at the time , viewing it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , although they can not have guessed how thick that wedge will ultimately become . the financial services act of 1986 put an end to pure self-regulation . thatcher herself was no enthusiast for credit , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in a credit card . ” the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization of the financial sector , have accelerated dangerously from about 2004 onwards . it is also hard to trace back to the 1980 ’s the origins of the credit explosion and the proliferation of exotic and poorly understood financial instruments that lie at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis .
indeed , iranian hardliners may welcome an israeli strike , and even seek to provoke it , as a means of rallying the iranian population behind them . alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences . there is a better way to prevent nuclear proliferation and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zones , ” built on an incentive system that includes economic and technical support for countries that join , together with security guarantees from the un security council ’s permanent members . at the same time , the zone should enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to remain externally , and – again , backed by the security council ’s permanent members – impose military sanctions on those attempting to develop wmds .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war . united nations reports of atrocities , the internet ’s images of attacks on civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our hearts . but what is to be done – and by whom ? recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto the united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni insurgents obliterate , at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood ultimately flows .
in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s countries to remain focused on governance and capacity-building , human rights , and how to create economies that respond to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better life . now that a raucous regional situation is being joined by raucous american election season ( where no issue is left out of the political arena ) , the task of assembling these components will be even more difficult . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public ’s rising expectations , and their willingness to move behind the peace process will take a back seat to that struggle . it is too early to judge the arab spring ’s historic effect , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have little to do with it . for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , the events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have convinced them otherwise .
london – vulnerable communities are facing the brunt of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe drought and flooding . in emerging economies , small and medium-size companies account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and these numbers are considerably higher when informal small and medium-size companies are included . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . when an sasme builds on its own climate resilience , it can have cascading effects in communities around it . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient against climate change , financial institutions should support small and medium-size enterprises .
agricultural production accounts for half of anthropogenic methane but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also generates gasoline . and because methane is a much shorter-lived gas than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst short-term warming through mitigation . we could also place a greater focus on reducing black carbon , considered responsible for as little as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of arctic melting . indeed , cutting methane is cheaper in , in fact , than it is in cutting carbon . professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to $ 30 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits – from reductions of warming – between 1.4 and three times higher .
in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , adopting a symbol resembling a statue of liberty . today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of a “ american dream . ” china ’s challenge , however , may be more difficult . it not only has to live with the reality of american power ; it must also take into account the american ideal . it has never had to deal with others as equal , unlike the traditional european powers that have done so for centuries .
but , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute a power of similar magnitude . a stronger , more unified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with america and china on most of the domains – including “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , europe could , therefore , make such a g3 world reality . yet europe ’s leaders tempted by the prospect of the g3 world must address two related concerns . first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the level of integration needed when most important decisions within the bloc still require unanimity among member states .
this , after all , is how the us administration has dealt with canada and mexico . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in particular sectors . trump has temporarily exempted the two countries from the tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement . while the us has , on average , fewer tariff protection than europe , the gap is minor ( europe ’s unweighted customs duties averages 5.2 % versus 3.5 % for the us ) . regulatory divergences are a far more important obstacle to us-european trade than tariffs .
how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their diagnostic test fee , which might be fair enough , but also prevent any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay it a license fee ? do n’t i have the rights of control over my own body ? do n’t i have the rights of control over my own body ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over an individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable . we do n’t need to believe in genetic determinism to discover that argument compelling .
for that reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against traffic in women applauded amnesty international for its support of decriminalization . humans are no exceptions in this respect . instead , they argued , we should “ end the demand for paid sex ” – but without explaining how this should be done . in species that reproduce sexually , sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive desires . there has also been opposition from some feminist organizations , which have accused amnesty international of protecting “ the rights of pimps and johns ” rights .
since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . many companies are simplifying and shoring up their supply chains . for a variety of goods , automation means that the location of manufacturing and outsourcing decisions no longer depend mainly on labor costs . propelled by demand and outsourcing from advanced economies , emerging markets won a growing share of soaring trade in goods ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . but deeper structural change also plays a role .
nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan support in the us for maintaining military bases in afghanistan , as a means of projecting hard power , and the increasingly charged confrontation between the us and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice has explicitly linked russia with “ talk of withdrawal from afghanistan , whether security situation warrants it or not . ” rice claims anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops sends the message that america is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that will embolden russian president vladimir putin further . what it does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia , a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan , could undercut its basing strategy . the us evidently believes that a continued military presence in afghanistan is in its interests .
according to waszczykowski , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told a tabloid superekspres after the summit that the eu was pursuing “ a policy of double standards and deceptions . ” such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of the pis government , which also refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as if that makes them legally non-binding . in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has launched that strategy by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official track record , as if that will render an outcome inconsequential to poland . no doubt , the government has paralyzed the court , thereby undermining the rule of law in poland . according to waszczykowski , poland not only “ must drastically reduce [ its ] level of trust in the eu , ” but “ must also start pursuing a negative policy , ” by “ blocking ” other initiatives , or playing a very aggressive game .
indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and a safe and reliable nuclear power . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways , food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels , but opportunities to increase enormously in the use of inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power are vast . this will require massive investments in new technologies and resources , not a fight to finish off middle eastern oil . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and a safe and reliable nuclear power . important energy technologies will include conversion of coal to liquids ( such as gasoline ) , the use of tar sands and oil shale gas , and the growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources .
in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . there was a brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru jackets and the maoist revolution , but that was brief . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you go through the pictures of chairman mao , you ai n’t make it with anyone anyhow . ” by the end of the century , japan ’s spectacular performance not only made the japanese wealthy , but also strengthened the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s soft power . asia ’s ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success .
likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small and medium-size companies – not to cut funding for important research programs like the horizon in 2020 . for example , the proposed budget slashes financing for cross-border infrastructure projects , including by expanding high-speed broadband networks into rural areas and developing transportation and energy infrastructure . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transport links . but the eu can add considerable value by coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thereby attaining economies of scale , and avoiding a duplicity in national expenditure . but , with austerity under fire and eu countries seeking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the budget shape , ensuring that the mff does not hinder future growth and investment .
france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will be even more subdued . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . the french were then rewarded with a string of lucrative deals in china . in response , china responded by canceling a danish trade mission .
in the sdg framework , separate gender issues and health are intertwined , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises regularly , or has access to nutritious food . the global agenda in the field determines the norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevent disease , and administer care . it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods , such as vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and ensuring everyone ’s right to health .
still , just the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . consider a woman ’s perspective on conflict . for example , studies of multiple american courts indicate that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is on the bench , and far more willing when a second woman is added . “ each of us , ” as well as sandra day o’connor , the first female member of an american supreme court , renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a “ female ” justice , “ brings to our job , whatever that is , our lifetime of experience , and our values . ” in other words , women bring a fresh perspective , heard clearly only when a critical mass of them is present in any institution .
but choosing action for the greater good does not absolve us from moral culpability . ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” our hands do become dirty when we help a terrorist or a dictator . he immediately adds , but this getting one ’s hands dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ”
with the new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen because of saudi financial support , it is little wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy gone awry – its propagation for the exports of islam ’s sunni wahhabi form . since then , the yemeni labor party has been banned from saudi arabia . but in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis were sacked , because they saw domestic security threats in the run-up to the first gulf war .
independently , honjo and his colleagues have identified another protein that carried out a similar function . these fundamental studies have now resulted in the development of new and powerful immunotherapies effective against cancer . for some patients with some cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary , enabling people on the brink of death to live healthy lives with no detectable traces of disease . yet the immunotherapy revolution is still in its infancy . yet we still have much to learn from these efforts .
the only way to develop is by adapting to new environmental pressures , and now silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavior , in the face of plenty . unless it changes , it will be overkill . the good news is that , if any of the eu has proved that it can innovate , it is silicon valley . but this has followed this approach on the macro level , and for problems elsewhere in the economy , without examining it . silicon valley citizens must start applying their skill at innovation – and their pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves .
establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to produce a positive feedback loop . if farmers are confident that their goats will not be stolen and can sell at a decent price , they are better able to invest in improvements in their production system . here , too , the platform for innovation is helping . for starters , we have trained farmers to improve their soil by expanding legume crops , residues of which can be used as goat fodder . recognizing the benefits of such practices , farmers have immediately started increasing crop density , applying dung and rotating crops to increasing yields and producing more feed for healthier goats .
in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for nearly 50 years , before picking up again . that may have been an extreme situation ; in the us , it is just a few years ago . but , for lower-skilled workers , the transition underway today could prove just as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should keep five imperatives in mind . with fears of increased inequality already increasing , governments will need to rethink the policies of providing income and job-shifting support to displaced workers .
at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential and failed to implement many decisions . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations produced by kagame and a pan-african panel of experts that he appointed – through an inclusive consultative process involving african leaders and other stakeholders – are being implemented . this is largely a matter of mindset , not of course . fortunately , mindsets are beginning to shift . to reinvigorate the au , rwandan president paul kagame tasked with guiding a process in which all were deeply involved .
both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are not supposed to intervene in a currency market by buying and selling their reserves . more fundamentally , why do we think of reserves differently than we think about other assets on national balance sheets ? suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil 's star central banker , issues bond in new york , and uses the dollar proceeds to enlarge the country 's international reserves . now suppose one of argentina 's private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond and uses the dollars to enlarge one of its advanced , highly competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk into asia . at best , market participants will applaud decisions ; at worst , they are indifferent , because brazil 's net debt position will not change .
while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , the us is falling behind . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has been investing in an expansive national digital plan , which is expected to create 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and to contribute $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . despite having run the internet race in the 1990s , the us is now the only major developed economy without a clear digitization plan . the consequences are already starting to show : according to the 2016 bloomberg innovation index , an american currently is the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having fallen two spots since 2015 .
beyond financing constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this problem . in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral lists receive a 30 % supplement from the state budget . fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this problem . in particular , greater care obligations , strengthened by public perceptions of a “ woman ’s role , ” severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office .
but there is scant evidence to suggest that sanctions have done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . moreover , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class and further weaken the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to seek a deal . that might well be true when iran was a full-fledged democracy , genuinely accountable to the people ’s will . by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for which iran ’s international status is better served through its nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions imposed on iran would appear to support the latter rather than the former .
as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require public engagement and the private sector alike . one hopes that the paris agreement changes that . bec ’s argument – that a “ new model ” will be a public-private partnership among governments , research institutes , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . because we do not yet know which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy , investment must be allocated to a wide array of choices . long enough , patient finance must also be available to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization .
but those challenges will not be realized and opportunities will not materialize unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children , particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds , a quality education . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budgets – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and young people . furthermore , we plan to provide up to 90 % of funding to a new program to improve senegal ’s education system from now to 2030 . even so , senegal struggles to meet all of the costs of strengthening its education system .
europe ’s defense industry will not be able to make progress without a well-functioning market , open , transparent , and equal opportunities for all european suppliers . a critical component in the coordination and proper functioning of the european security and defense policy is the eu ’s european defense agency . advances in the defense industry lead to significant positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development , which is fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . the objective must be to foster european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the forefront of global security . as member states advance along this path , propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues for eliminating wasteful spending and improving resource use .
a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given that a shark of economic value plummets when it is killed . for example , china banned shark-fin soup , the traditional delicacy , at official government dinners and functions , a move that contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales from last december to april . a single reef shark that frequents major dive sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; the same shark would be worth roughly $ 108 dead . in the south city of guangzhou , the center of china ’s shark-fin trade , vendors reported a 82 % drop in sales over the last two years .
tudjman ’s pretext was that croatia needed to concentrate power in its struggle against serbian aggression . to accomplish this with a bare fuss that he muzzled both the press and the electronic media . the truth is that he used a negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and a russian-style plunder of state characteristics by his coterie of tamil loyalists . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , dealing a dictator with milosevic was simple . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and communal divisions .
the current proposed arrangements would permit the chinese government to veto any candidate it dislikes , prompting criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style elections : “ you can vote for anyone we choose . ” according to a basic law , the election committee should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . its membership is chosen by only 7 % of hong kong ’s total electorate , and its voting procedures are seeking to prevent the nomination of any candidate who may harbor democratic sympathies . the hong kong government could call for changes to increase the openness and fairness by which the chief executive is chosen , without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . since 1997 , 55-61 % of voters in the legislative council voted for democratic candidates .
reformers insist that the overwhelming majority support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic in order to compete for power and govern . that case is not yet proven , at least for now . in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument used by today ’s rulers that the first free election would be the last , because islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes . january ’s palestinian elections were won by a relatively moderate leader on the grounds that the ruling fatah movement and islamists boycotted the election . but in gaza strip local elections soon afterward , the radical islamists who exploit terrorism won seven of ten municipal councils .
this is the global segment meeting a growing global need . increasingly , the industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . a shakeout in subprime-tech industries has been tough ; but it has also been typical of emerging technology , and , by weeding out weaker players , has made the sector more robust . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities to improve . there is little room to doubt that the clean-tech industry can expect many sunny days ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom that enveloped the world in 2008 led many to question whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , brazil , russia , and the united states , the number of billionaires soared . more broadly , the top 1 % of the us population prospered . but the gap between rich and poor widened , and at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ; no wonder many are now skeptical of taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even the automakers .
recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and the chairman of the g20 ’s financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , a former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lp , have issued an announcement on market data on climate science . global awareness of the topic is growing . their primary goals include enabling companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and key performance indicators ; monitoring , prepare , and disclose comparative data that measure their economic and esg performance ; and integrating sustainable production and consumption practices within company business strategies and models . given the magnitude of the task , however , it is important to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of such efforts with relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . for one , the american securities and exchange commission is already discussing these issues , because it analyzes options for responding to investor and business needs on esg issues .
this month ’s g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . but the outcomes the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , as well as integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance governance ( sdgs ) – can not be met without political will . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ capacity to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis . the pursuit of a thriving , inclusive economy must be linked to efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security . specifically , small landholders need new tools that enable them to boost productivity while establishing more sustainable production methods .
new york – the 2008 global financial markets experienced their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others were bought up on the cheap , or survived only after major bailouts . global stock markets fell by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch appeared ; and many emerging-market economies staggered on the international monetary fund for help . so what lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst behind the us , or ahead ?
and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to validate an old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” add to that the second psychological bias neuroscientists are debating : because our species have evolved to fend off dangers , we tend to be more responsive to bad news . good news is n’t news ; media executives frequently turn a blind eye to it . we react more acutely to images of starving children than to reports about improving nutrition levels in africa . and , of course , we tend to remember those horrible images much longer .
this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change that the internet has brought to china ’s political landscape . china ’s government has apparently started to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and , perhaps , the merits of allowing some room for free speech . insightful bloggers are attracting considerably more clicks than are official mouthpieces . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information and the right to process . a “ virtual civil society ” ” is in the making , and it is said .
new york – countries often devote public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promote imports , as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai , is truly rare . if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect it to reduce china ’s trade surplus . but that need not be the case . the annual import expo , which will be part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , attracted thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of big orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises that the government has tasked with making the expo a success .
london – the historian norman stone , who died in june , has always insisted that history students learn foreign languages . language gives access to a people ’s culture and culture . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . it is the key to our understanding of the past and the future of international relations . language gives access to people ’s culture and culture .
the first nagging question is this : will there actually be elections next january ? prime minister iyad allawi assures the world that there will be , and president bush echoes his words . while that scenario is simple , the reality is not . more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins about bombings and hostage to capture and “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on that prospect . the likelihood of the iraqi elections being held this coming january must be less than 50 % , and we can be certain that these will not be free and fair domestic elections .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump won still matters , with russia ’s role moving increasingly toward center stage . each new revelation in the impeachment of russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign brings the vulnerability of the american democratic process into sharper focus . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation that will compel facebook , google , and other social-media giants to publicize who is buying online advertising , thereby closing the loophole that russia exploited during the election . but making amends through technical fixes and public promises to be better corporate citizens will solve only the most publicized problem . a tougher challenge will be to strengthen institutions that are vital to the functioning of democracy – explicitly , civics education , and local journalism .
yet , if the ends are clear , policymakers are often clueless . in the american presidential campaign , the protection of trade is fashionable once again . but , while import restrictions may alleviate the pain of some manufacturing districts , they will not prevent companies from retooling where growth opportunities are strongest . they will not protect workers from technological change ; they will not . and they will not recreate the patterns of development .
algeria in the 1990 ’s provides a potent reminder of this , and western governments do not want the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to restart . a move by army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons may end the conflict , with military commanders gaining credit and political capital . but the four decades of a military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , a majority of whom never truly benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . getting “ stuck in transition ” is a third possible scenario , with libya remaining in a “ gray zone ” – neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but “ semi-free . ” when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented immigrants – two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators have an inglorious record .
first , the judges ’ training predisposed them to give the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslim . second , the court staff was entirely muslim , which meant that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . third , whereas muslims could attest against anyone , christians and jews could testify only against another non-muslim . but , of course , if they were involved in a case against a muslim , which had to be handled in an islamic court . when a muslim and non-muslim faced with a trial , muslims enjoyed significant advantages .
some argue that the real point is the risk of attack and destruction , which might occur if weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ something like cost/benefit analysis , based on a subjective sense of danger . but there is no way of making an objective assessment of fear , and even if it could be possible , using cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law . a better way to make sense of self-defense is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack the osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona .
most economies are becoming less equitable , with widening gaps between the rich and the poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed at rio +20 ’s summit last year to adopt sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments asked the un secretary-general to coordinate preparation for such goals by the year 2015 in order to ensure a seamless transition from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire that year . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place at the end of september for this purpose .
an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and generate thriving global demand for a product or service , just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara , is just as much entrepreneur as his next bill gates is . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments are watching their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . it is time for diplomats to do the same . they should encourage and encourage job creators and problem solvers , turning development assistance into investments . today , starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide , 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined .
political developments in slovakia during the last 20 years of communism set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary . while both polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization , which allowed relatively large semi-official zones of business outside communist control , czechoslovakia after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . likewise , the situation of the political right in each central european country is influenced by experiences rooted in history and tradition . when the communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland ’s communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into credible , democratic-left parties that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . although such politicians often describe themselves as `` rightist , '' '' '' '' '' their real policies , such as those of former belgian prime minister vladimir meciar , are in fact a demagogic populist or authoritarian .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ countries ’ people in ways that the americans are willing to do among people in various states . a third important difference is that all u.s. states are required by their constitutions to balance their annual operating budgets . even a state like california , seen by many as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of its gdp and a universal obligation of debt of just 4 % of gdp . such limits on state-level budget deficits are a logical implication that american states can not create money to fill fiscal holes . while the “ rainy day ” funds that are accumulating in boom years are used to cope with temporary revenue shortfalls , states ’ “ general obligation ” borrowing is limited to capital projects like roads and schools .
globalization proceeded at a rapid pace through much of the last century and at a particularly accelerating pace during its last two decades . yet a vast body of evidence suggests that technological change was a much bigger driver in global wage patterns than trade . so , too , let ’s go back to india and china . i have no doubt that sometime later this century one will be able to buy day-professors – perhaps with holographic images – as easily as one can buy pocket kasparov chess computer today . i certainly do n’t feel safe from an economics professor !
some empirical studies of cross-country data find net beneficial effects on environmental degradation indicators like local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . when trade brings down costs , it can benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods . so , is trade globalization , on balance , better , or worse ? specialization in each country allows people to obtain more of what they want , which , especially at higher income levels , includes cleaner air and water . provided that countries have effective national governance institutions , trade , and growth gives them the means to clean their air .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term kremlinology ” referred to efforts to understand what took place at the soviet union ’s commanding heights , indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . consider what happened on december 17 . kremlinologists monitored ( in whatever way possible ) who was up , and who was down among the core soviet leadership . great significance was read into who signed an official document , or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square when reviewing military parades . all of that was grammar-school stuff compared to the regime ’s efforts to decipher in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque .
they surely have a right to defend , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and the consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially lucrative option as long as capital flows are indeed temporary ) , the imposition of capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing . even if massive spillovers are clearly recognized , it is hard to see how this exercise will resolve the fundamental problem behind a currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . in a desperate last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over news ” for a few systemically important economies , running at the margin of its country ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercises or the g-20 peer reviews in a recent past . so , what should latin american economies do ?
east asian countries followed that advice , and for good reason : they saw the consequences of a shortage of reserves . east asian governments knew then that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns , but they were powerless to resist . the imf had the money that they needed . countries were admonished : avoid trade deficits and build up reserves because they are key frontline defenses . if china allowed its currency to float back then , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare is based on massachusetts ’s health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s ’s clean-energy plan targets . more recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean power plan targets . three states have implemented laws offering paying family leave , with fouron track . welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare is based on massachusetts under republican governor mitt romney .
cambridge – “ i want to be a part of it , new york , new york , new york , ” ” frank sinatra sang of the city that has attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . in a sense , this is not a difficult phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with their multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals rife with opportunities . but the impact of big cities runs deeper than economic or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally alter people ’s lives – and even those of the people themselves . geoffrey ’s westerner , together with a team of researchers , has discovered in 2010 that several socioeconomic measures – both positive and negative – increase with the size of the local population . in other words , the larger the city , the higher the average wage , productivity levels , the number of patents per person , the crime rate , the prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv .
as if all of this were inadequate to decide against america , the clincher may well have been india ’s desire to avoid another procurement controversy at a time when large-scale corruption allegations beset it from all sides . a decision made on technical ground , many felt , would be easier to defend than one based on political considerations . at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by a historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – have been holding back the us insistence on exemptions from supplier responsibility in the event of an accident , some regard india ’s spurning of us aircraft as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america , too . against this are the unstated advantages of pleasing a major new ally , and of developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in supply , training , and operations that has yet to evolve . ( the eventual winner in the bid is likely to be required to enter into a joint-manufacturing arrangement with india that american companies do not . )
in most cases , this means continuing to cut back on lending , worsening the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . institutions such as royal bank of scotland , which for a time in 2009 headed a list of the world ’s largest international banks , are pruned by the eu ’s directorate general for competition . as a result , large transnational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and , implicitly , for fiscal bailouts of fiscal bailouts should that supervision and regulation fail ) . even stronger banks are being pressed to increase their capital buffers . in the us , banks that require state rescues , european competition rules are demanding divestment and downsizing .
more ominous , according to a confidential american intelligence report , north korea has achieved the capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads , and may have as many as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken . trump has shot back that the american military is “ locked and loaded . ” trump has shot back that the american military is “ locked and loaded . ” and , indeed , as this exchange of rhetorical fire has unfolded , america has reportedly been preparing revised military options for striking north korea .
the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others , given the public goods that society provides . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining the highest pay , not for moral reasons but for the sustainability of the system . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that have benefited the most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . but do n’t hold your breath wait for agreement . two conclusions can be drawn from all of this .
and , sure enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized these relationships are the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s ’s ’s leftist government . after all , it is extraordinarily inconvenient to have in greece a government that is so opposed to the types of policies that have done so much to increase inequality in so many advanced countries , and that is so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth . the economy would suffer because the underlying european economic model was predicated on the power relationships that disadvantaged workers . when sweden did , the swedes said no . they understood that unemployment would rise if a country ’s monetary policy was set by a central bank that focused single-mindedly on inflation ( and also that there was insufficient attention to financial stability ) .
durham – this year , islamist politics have faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets , triggering the military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political ineptitude and lack of vision in the face of economic collapse would have been enough to diminish support for his rule . but his rejection of pluralism and pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to centralize power in the brotherhood ’s hands and place himself beyond the review of egypt ’s judiciary , has proven to be his undoing . but it is too soon to write political islam off as a competent participant – even a guiding power – in a pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a group of korean researchers published in the journal science the results of research that for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines explicitly tailored to match the dna of male and female patients of various ages . this carries great promise , especially for the sufferers of spinal cord injuries and disease . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in stem cell research . the next day , british researchers at newcastle university reported that they had been successful in producing a cloned human embryo using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , which means that they have the ability to develop into any type of human tissue .
finally , china can lower government spending ( in the medium term ) by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program by lowering the threshold beyond which firms must pay , and eliminating exemptions from permits for firms or industries . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability ; additional revenues could total 2 % of gdp , but also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . in recent decades , many of the largest global companies have used new technologies to reduce employee layers , from top executives to factory workers , thereby reducing costs and enhancing efficiency . china ’s government , by contrast , has retained the same six-layer administrative structure , starting with the central government , moving down through provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages – since the founding of the people ’s republic 70 years ago .
when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has restored its capability , such a move would have been unthinkable . indeed , the risks of a world without nuclear weapons , or only a minimal number of them , are tremendous . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and cautious . nuclear deterrence – threatening to kill hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is a concept that does not fit into traditional morales .
as a tragedy has unfolded , however , scientists have gained greater understanding . the infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into the willing executioner of prion replication . prions seem to defy all the conventional wisdom , surviving pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c over four hours – treatments that are routinely and reliably used to de-activate all known viruses and bacteria . furthermore , the prions are lacking in their own genes . a prion gene is provided by an infected individual in whom it resides in an innocuous state .
performing arts advocates in europe point to an american , where , among other things , the music directors of even major orchestras are now expected to participate fully in fundraising activities and to be active at the local community on the orchestras of the name . some conductors , not wanting to carry the cup as they wave their batons , rejected important american posts for this reason , feeling that it would interfere with their art . the same thing , they fear , will happen in europe . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra in part because he objected to the fundraising demands that come from him . but american experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra music directors to participate in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of the job .
this would hurt and weaken saddam , and establish unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . we should not forswear that option , but we ought to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically if not legally crucial – may never support an invasion . curiously , the council would uphold the council ’s authority by means that it has failed to pass its approval . the council is more likely to accept the possibility of mounting a punitive program of air strikes – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the republican guard , and other armed-force targets . at the same time , the council might declare that any fresh aggression or possible use , the threat or transfer of wmd , would unleash saddam ’s removal , and his pursuit , as the international criminal , of slobodan milosevic , .
some of the inspectors that he knew well , having dined with them on collegial terms during the visits to vienna . that he would lie to them so brazenly were incomprehensible to his friends on the inspection team . this time , dr. ahmed , a iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up . they recognized precisely what the giant magnets had to do : to produce arms grade nuclear materials . soon thereafter , the inspectors returned to tarmiya .
china , after all , is now one of the most unequal countries in the world . but china ’s ’s ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths about the impact of economic growth . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would increase sharply and then decline – in the “ inverted ” pattern of u ” or bell , as countries underwent economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes that claim more powerfully than any other case .
it must also mean developing a robust rule of law , giving people enforceable property rights , and giving citizens institutional means to settle disputes . pakistan held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold another at the end of 2012 or at early 2013 . pakistan has thus taken one more step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . had the supreme court not removed gilani , he would have been the first prime minister to complete his full term . of course , democracy always means more than periodically holding free and fair elections .
on the contrary , the cuban government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalize demands for a society-wide dialogue . this year , the peoples of europe are marking the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain that once divided europe in two . that 20 years after this epochal event , the iron curtain remains around cuba makes this anniversary poignant . of course , the tourists crowds cuba ’s beaches are unaware of this iron curtain . but , regardless of this ignorance and its economic interest , the eu should insist on the release of political prisoners and using all international institutions to impose pressure on the cuban government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights .
some have argued that the uprising in burma is over . but we are genuine and thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrated for peace . that is what the junta wants the world to think . but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of an end to military rule in our country . brigadier general kyaw hsan , the us military ’s deputy , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that marchers in the streets were “ bogus monks . ”
but plato probably would most marvel at the moral progress of the world . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibilities of a moral reformer . yet , while morality was always at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we now take for granted never occurred to him . for example , though plato opposed the enslavement of greeks , he – like every other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) . today , by contrast , even an emphatically non-philosophical individual – say , plato ’s “ media escort ” – could easily explain why slavery is bad : “ a person is a person . ”
here , local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . but it is at least as important to address the local-level social divisions that have emerged as a result of conflict , particularly in the hubs of violence . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterized the rural colombia has given rise to the farc in the first place , and the conflict has been concentrated in such areas . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking operations in which the farc have been engaged may also be viewed as an economic question , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , a security issue . ) such efforts must be underpinned by progress elsewhere : rural development , which is the only economic issue addressed under the peace deal .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , especially in europe , is making headlines worldwide . roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are unemployed . more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are “ neets ” – not in employment , education , or training . the youth unemployment rate exceeds 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , spain , latvia , hungary , slovakia , and slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . furthermore , more than 30 % of job seekers under 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their chances of job creation remain low .
foreign producers are accused of `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers . yet america 's supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to be found guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . so developing countries worry that efforts to introduce `` competition '' within trade negotiations will only make life even more difficult . indeed , if norms of domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps a majority of firms within the us would be guilty of dumping . trade negotiators are not even discussing eliminating this double standard .
facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . if that happens , libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , and helped to trigger a period of slow growth and financial instability . the libra project is dangerous like leo , and will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer . but libra ’s benefits seem to be as slippery as it was to pisces . for emerging economies , this would mean being cured of dollarization merely to catch an even worse case of libraization .
the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with the “ yellow vest ” protests of the last month . the immediate cause of the protests has been a new fuel tax . there is no reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in the developing world , even though specific dynamics depend on a variety of factors . for example , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in high-growth environments ( think of at least 5-7 % annual rates ) than in a low – or no-growth environment , where the incomes and opportunities of a subset are either stagnant or declining . the added cost has not been all that large ( some $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france have already been among the highest in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) .
from alexander the great to stalin ’s cruelest , variants of that strategy have been used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . we are now seeing this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over afghanistan treated as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , however , putin has made it clear to the world his neo-imperialist designs . to divide a people to conquer them is the immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , the russian president has since said that he can work with whatever government ukraine ’s people choose .
skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . in any case , an active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing . america has consistently run both a fiscal deficit – with total spending ( of which defense comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) well above its income – and a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt to the rest of the world , currently at 40 % of gdp , will double in less than 24 years . what it does not acknowledge is that the us is also forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural saving shortfall .
consider , for example , how recent innovations threaten the export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled many countries ’ ’ ’ development in recent decades . by using plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries were able to increase their share of global manufacturing activity , create jobs , attract investment , and , to some extent , relaunch a broader industrialization process . but , for firms that adopted the opportunity to reduce costs by shifting manufacturing to the developing world , a trade-off has always emerged : offshore production meant limited capacity to respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand . now , technology may be offering another alternative to the world . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” robots , and other nonhuman tools , companies could move their production sites closer to their final markets .
for instance , joyce , my former workmate , has a husband who is diehard manchester united fan . every season , he breaks at least one piece of furniture , when his team loses . she has transformed her furniture at least twice since she was married four years ago . couches are stained with beer , and kicked as her favorite teams cheers her . even wives of men watching the game at home have had other issues to address .
the idea that a murderous monster may symbolize a protester or an outcast , and therefore deserve sympathy , originated with french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in the understanding of the homicidal monsters like the other . in fact , has any monster not yet considered as a potential conveyor of revolutionary thought ? increasingly , such the protagonists became the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against the other – ethnic or religious minorities who have been demonized and victimized – by deleuze and guattari extended the concept of otherness to vampire .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by an increasing desire to stamp out “ sensibility ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . but shutting down discussion simply means the disappearance of reason from public policy . in march , al gore ’s science adviser and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , proclaimed that when it comes to tackling global warming , the “ democratic process is n’t working . ” although science has demonstrated that co2 from fossil fuels is heating the planet , politicians are reluctant to follow his advice and stop building coal-fired power plants . hansen argues that , “ the first action that people should take is to take is to capitalize on the democratic process .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election pushed south korea from 101st through 62nd place worldwide in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . campaign-finance legislation was revised to provide additional government funding to parties that meet the quota , and to reduce the size of parties that do not . and , although south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the fallout reflects the subsequent growth of the share of female legislators in other countries . increasing female mps has led not only to increased female cabinet members , but also to a variety of policies and institutional improvements aimed specifically at women . a key reason for increasing female mps was the introduction of a quota system , according to which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female .
for bingham , the law must be accessible and – insofar as possible – intelligible , clear , and predictable . everyone should be governed according to law , insulated from those in power ’s personal discretion , and legal disputes without prohibitive expenses or inordinate delay . there should be equality before the law , alongside appropriate protection of fundamental human rights . courts and other official adjudicative bodies should provide fair procedures . moreover , state power should be exercised reasonably , in good faith , and for the purposes it has conferred , with independent courts and judicial review of legislation ensuring that government does not exceed its authority .
it is the extreme right that has benefited most from centrists . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’s freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without backing , a minority liberal government would collapse . in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has been revitalized under marine le pen . nor is the backlash confined to the eurozone ’s members . in finland , geert wilders ’s freedom party capitalized on resentment around eurozone bailouts to finish a close third in april ’s general election .
the fourth factor is , of course , german business interests . but , here , the hungarian tail is wagging the german dog . the eu is paying turkey within euros , while seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should . german firms are making a lot of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia , which together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . hungary , by contrast , is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both exports and imports .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its major trade partners since the eu decided to include in its co2 emission-control scheme all flights and its territory , including transcontinental flights . airlines will need to acquire emission permits for their flights with co2 emissions . the ceos of aircraft manufacturer airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in . china and the united states are being outraged , and the international monetary fund is now in the works . chinese airlines have delayed orders to purchase european aircraft .
when we in government looked closely at the risks to london as a financial center from being outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage us . but we were never in any doubt that being out of europe altogether was entirely different . yes , special arrangements can be negotiated , but each must be negotiated individually . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center of europe ’s periphery , free from europe ’s responsibilities , but participating fully in its opportunities . and , to the record , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its bargaining , despite not being a member .
it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transitions in middle-income countries , as well as the persistence of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional disorders in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur improvements in health action if it is able to provide more detailed data breakdowns . policymakers are accountable , first and foremost , to their constituents , whose unique needs they must meet . estimates of local disease burdens will be vital to fight afflictions like ebola , checking in the rising toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and to meeting sustainable development goals relating to maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and evaluation , which i lead , is creating geospatial maps of disease burdens with a groundbreaking level of resolution .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain will have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices will have to rise close to 20 % relative to the eurozone average . from this perspective , crisis-stricken countries would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union that includes competitive countries . to be sure , if germany were to leave the common currency , a road back to competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , given that the rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as the other competitive countries remain within the eurozone . spain , for example , would still have to cut its prices by 22-24 % relative to its new eurozone average . the only way to avoid it would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies .
such training , together with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent sea water , would make it extremely efficient buffer unit to be deployed when disaster strikes . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to long-standing dependence on fisheries . one way to strengthen india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to develop our territorial army ’s marine equivalent , training selected fisherfolk in how to conduct search-and-rescue operations . another issue that risks being overlooked by the focus on urgent and immediate financial forbearance is the coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs . to be sure , urgent relief is vitally important : ockhi has shut off everyday operations altogether in some coastal areas , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fishing communities .
ramallah – the united states should stop pushing for an palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best way to achieve peace – a paradox that reflects the vast gulf between the peace process and achieving genuine peace . make no mistake : this is not a call to arms or an appeal to violent uprising . peace among the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through negotiations . but if a single party is to be more interested in a process than in the need for peace , something must be wrong .
but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historic divisions now demanded a redefinition of the european project . declarations by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s rotating six-month presidency at the start of this year of 2007 , are unambiguous : a period of reflection , endorsed by the european commission in 2005 , has ended . the treaty of nice ( 2000 ) was due to a rather poor compromise . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu and laid the foundations for political institutions equal to europe ’s economic power . the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as a project of peace , defense of the west ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity .
whenever i arrive in moscow , i am impressed by its new shops and buildings . but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . after the government seized control over independent television networks , ntv , and tv6 , russia ’s media became vastly duller . part of the explanation for this is increased official control , part of a decline in the public interest , and part of the fact that russia ’s problems nowadays simply seem less urgent . the most recent fad is for officials to sue libel newspapers demanding over $ 1 million .
true , the united states is not denmark . but it is not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare economies so successful , and what americans can learn from them . one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on the proportion of its population that is performing productive work in higher-value jobs . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries provide their people with work that pays a decent enough wage to sustain a healthy and happy life . according to oecd country rankings by employment , the top seven countries worldwide share welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now is a reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s rising inequality crisis and what we can do about it , and milton and the rose director friedman ’s classic free choice : personal pronouncements . considering them together , my overwhelming thought is that the friedmans would find their task to justify and advocating small-government libertarianism much harder today than they did in 1979 . their case for small-government libertarianism has rested largely on those claims , and has now largely crumbled , because the world , it has turned out , had disagreed with them about how it works . back then , the duedmans made three powerful factual claims on how the world works , claims that seemed true or perhaps true , or at least arguably true , but that now seem pretty clearly false . the first claim was that macroeconomic distress is caused by a government , not an unstable private market , or , rather , that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability is both straightforward and easy to
second , the g20 must commit to fighting tax evasion and unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa . according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion every year from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as base erosion and profit shifting . g20 members should strengthen tax disclosure requirements , prevent shell companies , intensify efforts to fight money laundering , and establish public business registries . the g20 should now follow through on that commitment and set a clear timetable for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending from 2017 onward and a ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 .
though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility , as a signatory to the espoo convention , to undertake a cross-border environmental environmental-impact assessment ( not to mention missed opportunities to consider potential alternatives to continued reactor operations ) , no such analysis is expected to take place . three of ukraine ’s nuclear power units are currently operating beyond their design lifetime , with nine more set to reach the end of their intended lifetime within the next five years . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support of revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear facilities until a cross-border assessment is carried out . the snriu will make this critical decision without key information on the health and environmental risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . most immediately , the unit two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new urban food production model . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making . at the business level , more than 700 firms with an overall market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments , according to we mean business coalition . as a result , the issuance of global green bond could reach $ 300 billion this year . and 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to climate 100 + , a five-year initiative to engage with the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve governance on climate change , curb emissions , and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures .
but this was no recipe for restoring stability and growth . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . to succeed in restoring a strong growth path , east asia must deliver justice for more than individual human-rights abuses . as proponents of asian values have argued , all human rights – civil and political as well as social and economic – must be strengthened . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash .
whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been a moral issue , hedging against risk is a pure technical question . the main uncertainties in life – the destination of one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morality . a crucial theoretical point in moving a debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of uncertainty as risk . by contrast , the virtuous chinese who saves a large share of their incomes castigated western economists for their failure to understand that their duty to humanity was to spend . this was the central achievement of the mathematical economics of the twentieth century .
having ruled out a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy ’s center-right government , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . but this approach is inherently inefficient and unstable . as a result , italy and the european union are headed toward the kind of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce a parliamentary majority has forced another election the following month . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise . a cyprus crisis – which threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus from the eurozone – could make the situation even harder to manage .
in the 1980s , for example , the us entered into such agreements with foreign car , microchip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . some of the conditions imposed then were banned by the world trade organization . but , just a few years ago , the american auto industry pushed for a requirement in a trade deal that granted it a minimum market share of us exports to south korea . trump is likely to wag these tools further . if trump wants to prevent manufacturing from moving overseas , and encourage investment from abroad , the us may soon see companies pushed to agree “ voluntarily ” to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
and america ’s per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country by far . the paris accord does not victimize america ; on the contrary , the us has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order . according to the world resources institute data , the american people accounted for an astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 . america ’s ’s population today is just 4.4 % . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been several times higher than the global average , that owes world climate justice , not the other way around .
china ’s gdp growth , for example , was unaffected ( in fact , the economy grew at almost 10 % ) when the stock market lost half of its value from 2001 to 2005 , or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to fall dramatically again after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market has been a global laggard – that is , until the last year , when it became the world ’s best performing widely , rising by more than 150 % . and yet a roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market opened up on the monday that followed the largest two-day upswing since 2008 . that rise preceded the loss of nearly a third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early july . and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise or fall by double digits , without triggering a wider economic crash – at least so far .
on the one hand , the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and the neo-confederates that descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august , to crack some black and jewish heads . i have sought to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( concurrently ) , is the expression of american-style pragmatism , perhaps the eu is one of the most visible footprints of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . but , very soon , we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america . far from reflecting careful deliberation over ambiguous choices , “ at the same time ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and trembling in the face of dual nature ’s unsolvable and terrifying mystery – the physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected – of christ ’s tormented body . on the one hand , the conversation has again turned to macron .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . argentines , who have given the world über-populist juan domingo perón , or the brazilians that brought the us getúlio vargas , may beg to differ . yet there can be no disagreement that latin americans have been the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century americans invented political populism , with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric . perón and vargas , plus alan garcía at perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed for inflation to soar , and ultimately suffered currency crises .
what is remarkable is that it has already lasted so long . he has expressed understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons , because , as he put it , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel . israel is bound to fight against this emerging new american doctrine , which is rebalancing it with iran , or even with india and pakistan for that matter . political contexts matter ; israelis will argue . but it has been a recent declaration of the us congress by us secretary of defense robert gates , which has been especially shocking for israelis .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the country ’s winner ’s november presidential election , with 54.1 % of the vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , gained 45.9 % . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , calling on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . one day after that was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo ’s close ally paul yao n’dre , annulled the results from seven departments in the north , declaring gbagbo the winner of the election with 51 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted .
in contrast to last year , when the rush home for lunar new year celebration was hampered by freak storms , this year millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural homes . many will stay there because the global economic downturn has hit china hard , costing them their jobs . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest in 1959 , which led to the dalai lama ’s exile and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has taken many proactive measures , even adopting the “ serf liberation day , ” ” ” ” to defend its record in tibet of the last 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama ’s representatives . littered with a host of extraordinarily sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than the 2008 crisis .
dealing with deficit has required difficult decisions – from reforming the welfare system and increasing the state pension age to controlling public-sector pay . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing the checks on itself . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition to secure the economy for the long term , but it is inadequate . success also requires taking bold steps to tear trade barriers out , and to open the economy to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india . we need responsible choices to ensure that we can live within our means , and that is what i am determined to deliver .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows precisely that . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities is a proven recipe for failure , as demonstrated by the sad experiences of most developing countries in recent decades . second , while pushing the technology frontier is a crucial component of growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries is reshaping production and export structures , particularly by shifting resources to higher-productivity activities . the key to achieving this is the capacity to diversify domestic production by generating new activity , strengthening intra-continental economic linkages , and creating new domestic technological capabilities . building industrial and modern services industries is critical to successful diversification , and , in some cases , it is well documented .
oed etymology ignores the non-english-language origins of the term , which can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism . today , few know where the term “ globalization ” originated . the oxford english dictionary provides as the earliest reference to its current usage of an academic article from 1972 . the word has been used earlier , but in a rather different sense . it was a diplomatic term conveying a linkage between disparate policy areas ( for example , bargaining simultaneously on financial and security matters ) .
but it is precisely because it is so extraordinary that it is hard to see how implementing those threats by launching a war can make any sense at all . without its determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skilful diplomacy , iraq ’s military programs today would not be vulnerable to scrutiny any other would-be proliferator . a credible threat of war has been vital to reaching this extraordinary feat . the best “ grave consequences ” of which the un security council has warned should iraq fail to abide by its commitments would be an even sharper effort to destroy its illicit weapons through the continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : the inspectors , not invaders . if , during the inspections iraq was exposed as having lied , and cheated this would be a validation of the inspections ’ effectiveness , scarcely a justification for military reprisals .
major states would have an interest in curtailing damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls . of course , historical analogies are imperfect . while their vision of a “ information security ” could legitimize authoritarian governments ’ ’ ’ ’ censorship , and thus are unacceptable to democratic governments , they may be able to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . obviously , cyber technology is very different from nuclear technology , especially because non-governmental actors can exploit it far more easily . limiting all intrusions would be impossible , but one could start with cyber crime and cyber terrorism .
indeed , with banks failing to impose tough budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms , and with the planning system incapable of imposing alternative efficient discipline , china is already awash in apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied , and with enormous overcapacity in heavy industry . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over the existing debt , forever extending new loans to pay down old debts . to be sure , that would produce wasted investment . but , as some chinese policymakers respond , all of the growth processes involve waste : nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america created enormous overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation . most of the debt is owed within the state system , for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks , and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , financing operations with either borrowed or printed money .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that abundant natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure , and its people ’s productive capacity , resource depletion will leave the country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner the likes of namibians the country ’s resources , and to rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that this is the case . transparency is crucial to this process , which is why the government ’s strong support for press freedom is so important . as president hage geingob has put it , the press often says things that he does not like .
the good news is that cyprus , the newly elected president , nick anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . naturally , much will depend on how he fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . but a cautious look beyond the current turbulence and anastasiades ’s history provides grounds for optimism . it is not unimaginable that this type of cooperation could be extended to include other neighbors around the levant . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this will naturally be his top priority .
for reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents must be drawn from past or current prime ministers . it is not a structure conducive to political coups de theâtre , and most of the labour party is the relentless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . but the bottom line is that at a time when everyone is asking , “ what is europe doing ? ” the commission ’s own internal culture of attrition and red tape is the constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to talk about . yet the commission ’s head is called on to be europe ’s dynamic public face .
but it is not obvious that the uk provides such security , especially now that it is on a path toward leaving the eu ’s single market and customs union . as scotland confronts brexit ’s strategic challenges , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better for it . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that are more aligned with other successful small economies – not least by retaining eu membership . britain chose to leave the eu because it had an outsized view of itself . but it will soon have to follow a small-country model , like that of switzerland or norway .
and , as china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and shadow-banking system is attracting increased attention , many companies are becoming anxious . third , while companies recognize that innovation is a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they are also humbled by their increasingly winner-take-all nature . as a result , many firms , less convinced that “ conventional ” innovation yields large payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did in the past . second , with china such an influential global demand driver ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the world ’s second-largest economy outlook places a disproportionate impact on projections of global corporate revenues . today , successful innovation is a lot less about financing and far more about finding the “ killer app . ”
stockholm – it has been one year since the failed coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future still abound . last year ’s attempted coup was nothing if not dramatic . mutinous f-16 combatants bombed the turkish parliament , with 249 people losing their lives . but the putschists failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters , and sealed the coup ’s fate . had the coup not been stymied within the first 48 hours , turkey probably would have fallen into a ruinous and violent civil war , the consequences that would have extended well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tension is escalating across asia over north korea ’s missile program . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as a “ provocative act ” and a violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducted its nuclear-weapons test . but , rather than hot rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the missile launch ’s military ramifications . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its rocket , but what happens the afterward . contrary to its prior “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s government this time notified international agencies of its intention to launch a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and 8 .
and it has just held the first round of a us presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome . it has been ten years since the eu launched its eastern partnership , establishing a more reliable framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . that initiative , it is worth recalling , was in part a reaction to the russian invasion of georgia the preceding summer , when the kremlin tried to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . in the event , neither russia ’s closest allies would agree to recognize those occupied territories or to legitimize its invasion .
the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and for the eu as a whole . it will be followed either by sighs of relief ( as i hope ) , or by the cataclysm that the rocks the eu is at its core , bringing disaster to the uk . but , however the british decide , europe ’s many crises need to be addressed . without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to handling crises , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to gain traction and jeopardize the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . a policy of baby steps is no longer sufficient .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can go back to its core trading of crisis management . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems highly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unlimited expense accounts dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic , too . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full with three important challenges . the first , and probably easiest , challenge is restoring the imf ’s public image .
in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free borrowing to the government ; it is a gift . an increase in the monetary base is , however , only temporary ; when the bonds are rethought , it reverts to its original level . this eventual need to reduce the monetary base is the implicit claim on the central bank ’s asset ; thus , the increase is rightly regarded as a liability on its balance sheet . under a fiscal stimulus financed by helicopter money , the central bank never has to reverse the increase in the monetary base . because the holders of a distributed money have no say in a central bank , the increase in the monetary base should not be viewed as a liability , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth .
her party accused serra of orchestrating the attack , and , in revenge , her party -- the liberal front -- threw its support into ciro gomes . with sarney out , lula reigned at the polls , reaching 43 % in mid-may . then , in early july , gomes skyrocketed to 28 % , within striking distance of lula , who had declined to 33 % . brazil 's severe summer market jitters , during which the country 's risk index suddenly topped nigeria and brief credits for international trade dried up , started to change the face of the election . gomes used the television time available to his three-party labor alliance in late june to great effect , but most of the credit for his rise in opinion polls to his second wife , a popular actress patricia pillar , recovering from breast cancer .
claremont , california – although the rapid escalation of violence in hong kong seems terrifying enough , things may be about to get much worse . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping is planning to tighten his grip on the former british colony at all costs . he should be prepared to rack up a formidable bill , and he is now willing to make good on it .
and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has been a vocal champion of counterextremism initiatives , including responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders . it has become a global green-energy leader in 2015 to increase its share of renewables , to 52 % , by 2030 , one of the world ’s most ambitious targets . these shortcomings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , despite important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional changes that shifted powers from monarch to parliament , and legal reforms , such as aligning legislation with european and international human-rights norms , together with progress on family law and gender equality . moreover , regional tensions , including escalating political instability in algeria , and the thorny issue of western sahara – have hampered integration across the maghreb , the absolute imperative to unlocking prosperity in north africa .
after all , there is little reason to believe that the fiscal compact or designed “ debt brakes ” will succeed where both the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . misplaced hope that the enforcement problem can be resolved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ member states ’ constitutions might be based on a misunderstanding of america ’s own system . after all , there is little reason to believe that the fiscal compact or the proposed “ debt brakes ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . to use eurobonds as the mechanism for eliminating grand sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : offering absolution precisely on the top 60 % – of-gdp france , where countries will have the most trouble resisting temptation . misplaced hope that the american federal government never bailed out a state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional provisions that restrict deficit spending .
nonetheless , following amendments to the indian patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the kind of excesses that major pharmaceutical companies routinely dodge in america and europe . for example , india abides by a tighter definition of what constitutes an invention , one that prevents a “ evergreening ” : the process of enlarging the life of a patent by taking secondary patents for marginal improvements to the old drug . but , since the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all of the world trade organization ’s member states have had to recognize one another ’s ’s pharmaceutical patents . according to the section 3 ( d ) of india ’s patents act , “ the mere discovery of a new form … possessions or … uses for the known substance , or the sheer use of a known process ” are not eligible for a patent unless it “ scores in a new product , ” or employs at least one new reactant . for indian drug makers , manufacturing generic versions of highly patented drugs would require a license , and such licenses are rarely if ever granted .
his promotion of the rainforest ’s development and attacks on environmental regulation has led , for example , to the prevalence of agribusiness , particularly cattle ranching , and illegal logging . according to data from brazil ’s national space research institute , brazil ’s portion of the amazon increased in june by 88 % year on year . but bolsonaro does not want to keep amazon chaste ; he merely wants to be among those exploiting it . with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like a virgin that every foreign pervert wants . ” the foreign actors criticizing brazil ’s exploitation of the rainforest , from european governments to pope francis , advocate biodiversity only to exploit it in the future .
in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . to be sure , there are notable divisions between north korea and iran . kim seems perfectly willing to subject the north korean people to privations of every sort to remain in power . the most obvious is iran ’s nuclear program , whereas north korea , which , unlike iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty , already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the american mainland . trump may have begun to recognize that intensifying pressure on north korea does not preclude sitting down to negotiate with kim .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market – buying and selling a foreign currency . a third argument against putting anti-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . but this reflects a profound misunderstanding of the issue . conventional monetary policy operates by altering short-term interest rates , which include a central bank buying and selling short-term government debt .
after all , it would not be funny if a charity dedicated to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value of that case would be paramount , because it would be the only real reason for the charity to exist . on this view , science also has a quite different , higher purpose : understanding the natural world . so , although its potential usefulness is the reason that governments devote so much money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than it does . but a joke would not work unless another widely shared assumption is equally independent from any practical perspective . so , while potential usefulness is the reason why governments devote so much money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than it does .
new york – last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization emphasized the need to put human rights at the center of the response to the zika outbreak . but abortion politics intervened , as republican lawmakers leading congressional hearings on the zika outbreak made funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with too little responsibility while giving them too little power – are not lost on everyone . the position of the united states has n’t helped , either . last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization emphasized the need to put human rights at the center of the response to the zika threat .
such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public and to the people of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . at long last , these countries ’ demographic wealth would be used to meet their development needs . it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and guard its borders against migrants . if they become consolidated democracies , as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption . and start-up loans from europe would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortune back home .
but is this an accurate description of slow-growing countries ? edmund phelps of columbia university reports that these slow-growing countries lack “ dynamism , ” which he defines as a combination of entrepreneurial spirit and the financial institutions to channel it . both spirit and necessary financial institutions must be present to enable “ creative destruction ” – driving joseph schumpeter argued sixty years as an engine of capitalist prosperity – to break down . of course , what is advantageous today may be problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will face severe problems when their demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america ’s today . but this is not what the world needs now to do .
institutions are torn down , property rights are challenged , and a randomized and ever more corrupt redistribution efforts are underway . lula ’s popularity ignacia da silva and his team leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is poised to reject conventional governments . lula and his party are so far outside the mainstream of economic thought and policies that capital has already started fleeing -- even when the election is months away . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may follow the same course .
in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy use will increase by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population nearly doubling , less energy per person will be available . the iea also estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro power , even with a carbon tax . yet western activists seem to believe that the world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied with inadequate and irregular supplies of electricity . few in the rich world would switch to renewables without heavy subsidies , and certainly no one would cut off their links to the mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid , which provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( another form of subsidies ) . by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person per year , less than what is needed to keep a single , two-watt led permanently lit .
much has been said in 2011 and early 2012 of the crash in china ’s housing market , and the chain-reaction of defaults in the underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability , upon which the returns of the shadow-banking system ’s asset pools are based , is low and declining . where , then , will the high returns of financial products provided by the shadow banking system come from ? in 2013 , talk of a resurgent housing bubble and the collapse of the shadow banking system , consisting mainly of wealth-management firms and local-government finance platforms . according to market sources , total assets managed by the shadow banking system have risen exponentially since 2009 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or a third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 .
but , while industries are facing the threat of inflated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are the eu ’s abundance and national energy regulation . by any reckoning , this is an important industrial sector that should not suffer from overregulation . european industries are afflicted by similar problems . refining and petrochemical sectors , the eu supplies a large share of its fuel , and is also a major source of tax revenue . a downstream sector , together with fuels distribution , is contributing a total of about € 240 billion annually to treasury coffers .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed back against trump . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values to protect minorities , and has welcomed the poor and downtrodden . yet draining the poison from europe will require much more than scolding the us and praying for trump ’s premature departure . in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches to issues like immigration are threatening to create the systemic problems that will endure long after trump has reverted to the life of golf courses and bankruptcy courts . sensible european leaders can be forgiven for politely sending the uk along the way , so that they can turn their attention to the threats to their long-term cohesion and fundamental values .
acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing , and the current political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may in fact be empowering , because it implies the possibility of improvement in both economics and politics . moreover , policymakers need to rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected on market-based fundamentalist assumptions . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality – must be revised downward . if the world becomes too complex and unpredictable for either markets or governments to achieve social goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed so that political decision-making can constrain economic incentives , and vice versa .
a more effective approach would employ a wider range of tools , including debt restructuring . nor can austerity alone suffice , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments – 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case – that citizens are likely to resist them , as the greeks have done . likewise , governments must work to reduce existing debt , and the deficient global demand that it contributes . likewise , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to reduce the incentives created by almost all countries ’ fiscal regimes for corporate leverage . it is simply not feasible for the most highly leveraged governments to grow their way out of debt .
third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . and others are more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to a service . but silicon valley ceos are no robin hoods , either . tech entrepreneurs may tell their investors they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated by the idea that the world will be better off by selling their business to the highest bidder .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has made him a fatwa for apostasy from churchill ’s fearsome head imam of the bradford mosque . likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has made him a fatwa for apostasy from the fearsome head imam of the bradford mosque . but one must still follow through , admitting that khan has not yielded on these issues to the facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel . moreover , he never wavered on critical questions about legal and practical equality for women , or about expressing his dismay at the growing numbers of niqabs and hijabs now seen on london ’s streets to prevent people , he notes , from speaking up to face . for europe , that is a necessary principle .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second payments services directive ( psd2 ) have been crucial in opening up the banking system , with regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority some time ago running regulatory sandboxes in order to smooth the way for new entrants , by helping them to structure themselves to comply with standards . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” has required banks to offer their customer data to non-bank providers of payment and account for information services . aggregators can then present the customer with an integrated view of their finances , offering a add-on service . perhaps the time to assess open banking ’s financial-stability risks was in the consultation period before the directive came . even now , the list of fsb contributors shows that the european commission and key regulators in europe and north america have not been involved .
a classical economist would argue that , given this , the country should export timber , which finland has done . a traditional development economist , by contrast , would argue that it should not export wood ; instead , it should add value by translating wood into paper or furniture – something finland also does . but all wood-related goods represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . some ideas are worse than wrong : they are castes , because they interpret the world in ways that emphasizes secondary issues – say , the availability of raw materials – and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that may lie elsewhere . consider finland , the nordic country endowed with many trees for its small population .
this more profound transformation , unlike the low-hanging fruit eyed many policymakers today , offers the only path to climate safety ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . we need to reach around $ 50 grams / kilowatt-hour by 2050 , rather than the 500 grams / kilowatt-hour . deep decarbonization requires not just natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged on a zero-carbon electricity grid . this more profound transformation , unlike the low-hanging fruit eyed today by many policymakers , offers the only path to climate safety ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . by pursuing coal to gas-guzzling cars , or more efficient gas-burning vehicles , the us risks dragging itself into a high-carbon trap .
to succeed , conglomerates need government support and acceptance of society . but ensuring such support requires policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates toward export industries that can grow beyond domestic markets – industries in which competition encourages the discipline they lack , owing to dominating local markets . rather than becoming agents of change , they often impede change . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with support rather than obstruction , their conglomerates . ( indeed , the great economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by preventing start-up competitors from challenging them . )
what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? how is it to define its interests in these countries ? working groups might be formed to try to develop a common narrative . does that really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of the shia arabs ? negotiation would also have to cover contemporary issues , including a tour d’horizon of current hotspots .
domestically , china will be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and required gdp growth , is compelled to pursue a “ green ” economy . otherwise , china would quickly reach its “ limits to growth , ” with catastrophic ecological and political consequences . because china will be the most important market in the future , it will be decisive in determining not just what we produce and consume , but how . consider the shift from a traditional automobile to an electric power . despite european illusions , this will be decided in china , not the west .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must express the clear intention of reducing sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels , which are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rates recently , on the grounds that spain has borrowed at nearly the same rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement , oddly , ignored spain ’s ’s higher pre-euro inflation , thereby muddled real and nominal rates and faster gdp growth . for countries following agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , and announce how long ( say , nine months ) that this will continue . a sporadic program without such announced targets is unlikely to work , and could even be counterproductive , as private investors might well demand even higher returns , because the ecb ’s growing share of gdp would be regarded as senior , augmenting risk .
inflation targeting was best known as the rule , which instructed central banks to set – and try – their best to attain – a target range for the annual rate of action on the consumer price index ( cpi ) . but that rule succumbed rather rapidly to violent money-demand shocks , though friedman ’s common argument , that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion , remains very influential . there were also proponents of flexible inflation targeting , which held that it was okay to put some weight on real gdp growth in the short run , so long as there was a clear longer-term target for cpi inflation . but some felt that if the definition had been stretched too far , it would have lost its significance . close cousins included targeting the price level rather than the rate of inflation , and targeting core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) .
but cutting jobs weakens final demand further , because it reduces labor income and increases inequality . in the us , for example , slashing labor costs sharply reduced the share of gdp in labor income . the result is that free markets do not generate enough final demand . firms in the advanced economies are now cutting jobs , owing to inadequate final demand , which has led to excess capacity and uncertainty about future demand . because solid ’s labor costs are someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for one firm is destructive in the aggregate .
but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of these jobs is very different from the replacement of the us . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , taa is not a solution for this kind of ailment . after all , whereas taa targets individuals directly impacted foreign competition , much of the competition faced by local economies comes from abroad , and many of the jobs that are lost are not in industries that are directly affected outside competition , but in the surrounding economy . nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by the blockbuster videos , borders books , compusa , circuit towns , paypal , or virgin megastores . meanwhile , employment in amazon grew by 47 % year on year , to 341,000 people .
after this spectacular russian failure , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic and faces the threat of a true democracy in his neighbor spreading to russia . for the first time , ukrainians have thrown their little-brother complicated toward russians ’ overboard . yanukovych stands for the truly oligarchic state of the sort putin has defeated at home , with yanukovych accusing yushchenko of having sold ukrainian companies to russian corporations . moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can turn to russia only because of president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . president putin ’s behavior is probably best explained by his dislike of democracy .
with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies . to be sure , agricultural development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls that must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains reduce the number of farm workers they need , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and manage migration to cities become even more essential . fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well educated young people , who are largely uninterested in the backbreaking work of subsistence farming , is well positioned to fill the higher value-added jobs that emerge in and beyond the agriculture sector . another potential pitfall of agricultural development is environmental damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excess water usage , and water pollution .
for many of the agreement ’s critics , particularly those in the environmental movement , these compromises made the lima deal an excessively “ bottom-up ” deal . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they would like , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” rules imposed by the agreement . such critics worry that this will make it harder to persuade countries to cut their emissions further when it becomes clear that their collective efforts are inadequate , and may even enable some countries to use irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima agreement ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the longstanding division of the world into just two types of countries , developed and developing . it almost certainly will not do so .
indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur in the pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the chief backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping broad hints that he may become a presidential candidate . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all of the country ’s anti-park , and anti-president lee niewski forces , is attracting more young people as well . her refusal to strike back on her own is probably a prime reason why she continues to lead a variety of opinion polls . ahn ’s most explicit merits are his personal history of overcoming severe challenges and his modest demeanor . nevertheless , recent polls indicate that a majority of voters mistrust the incumbent government and the ruling party .
some people will balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would no doubt agree that preventing human deaths and suffering , while providing food , water , and education to all , is vitally important . the reality is that there simply is not enough resources to do everything . dhaka – we humans are not only sharing the planet with a host of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we , too , depend on them for our survival . can we determine the economic value of protecting our natural world ?
· because inflation remains low across most of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case downside risks materialize . in many emerging and developing countries , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transportation . and , elsewhere in the region – the tiny pacific islands in particular – vulnerability to the effects of climate change is increasing . this shifting landscape calls for bold action on several fronts . while the response will certainly have to be tailored to individual countries ’s particular circumstances , some recommendations could help most countries : ·
it wants to remain asia ’s sole standing country – a stance that places it at odds with india . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship any brics country has been with the united states . the brics ’ concept represents , above all , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural . if the brics countries are to jell as a pressure group in international relations , they must agree on what they believe is attainable political and economic goals . they are generally united in their frustration with – but not in their proposed response to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency .
first , an almost infinite amount of speech is set free by a digital democracy . and , third , there was the “ deconstructionism ” of the post-nietzscheans . by historicizing the “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting truth in quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating the sign from its referent ( louis althusser ) , and miring the obvious in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , they are likely to lose contact with simple , robust , and irreversible aspects of human nature . the web then becomes a crowd , a free-for-all , where everyone shows up as armed with his or her personal opinions , convictions , and truth . i then focused on the responsibility of the internet and gravea ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following sequence of events :
solna , sweden , elite sports , and doping have long been deeply intertwined . but a damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro , brought it to the forefront of the public ’s consciousness . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice – and to save elite sports . reaching elite levels in sports requires tremendous amounts of hard work , dedication , and focus . by definition , few succeed but those who do may enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) could soon become a thing of the past . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire at the end of world war i. the continuation of this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or to forge anything like a resilient framework for peace . instead , it remains trapped somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries .
that seems clearly wrong : numerous expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . that leads to a second and more plausible explanation , one that is psychological and behavioral in character . why do we tend to underinvest in our economies ’ resilience ? one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out higher investment . even rapid responses are more effective when key networks and systems , particularly the electricity grid – resilient .
in october , the people ’s bank of china , responding to twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively , respectively , its first increases since 2007 . in the west , concerns about the impact on chinese growth sparked a fearful sell-off in the markets . meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction . right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank has raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 percentage points , fight inflation , and china ’s central bank now indicates that it may raise interest rates further . in brazil , interest rates remain close to 11 % , and the central bank ’s inflation rate has fallen .
producers in jiangsu , for example , have been forced to adjust continually to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets . traditionally , contract manufacturers in china are scattered and fiercely competitive . they have little if any say over domestic and international regulations . less-fragmented industries also lobby better . larger firms are more capable of pooling resources for research and development , which is the key to china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder .
that may have been true of china once ; it is no longer true today . but the literature on exit strategies ” – on how to substitute a currency peg with a more flexible exchange-rate regime – makes it clear that the moment when china could have navigated that transition smoothly has now passed . that puts chinese policymakers in the position of the iran tourist position , asking directions to dublin , and it is told , “ well , sir , if i were you , i would not have started . ” countries can exit a pegged rate smoothly only when confidence in an economy is used to stimulate the belief that the more flexible exchange rate can appreciate as well as weaken it . no question , then , would be better for a country with a more flexible exchange rate , which has eliminated one-way bets for speculators and acted as an economic shock absorber .
a strong version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force government-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) might work . the legislation was not intended to ban derivatives , but only to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized by taxpayers ( remember the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) , which is neither a natural nor inevitable by-product of lending . but the american government would remiss things like these . there are many ways of curbing the excesses of the big banks . the senate ’s bill ’s provision on derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing these restrictions , have clearly lined up on the side of big banks .
egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . if finalized , an imf program could trigger additional assistance packages by the world bank and other international donors . unfortunately , the latest political incident involving american ngos ’ democracy-promotion activities has chilled bilateral relationships , jeopardizing the $ 1.3 billion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states . if the aids arrives , egypt could start to address some of its financing problems , but still requires a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector in reviving the country ’s economy .
of course , those who favor working at home cite not only the cost and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – too much culture , perhaps – and a steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with free food advent ) or the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . being physically present at work implies direct contact with other sharp and creative minds . interestingly , i heard this point at a wpp stream “ unconference ” unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people made thousands of miles to meet to face up to the need to share ideas and strengthen working relationships . and the benefits of human contact and interaction are why salesmen still appeal to customers instead of using skype , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face meetings ; i am on the company ’s board ) changes lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need to ship goods across long distances . the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and speed to markets is assuming greater weight in such decisions . but , by itself , globalization is not in retreat . if trade in global goods has indeed peaked relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops . while the global goods trade has stalled , and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , flows of digital information have surged : cross-border bandwidth usage has grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating thought , intellectual content , and innovation around the world .
in 2002 , china signed the framework agreement on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . as xi put it at davos in 2017 , china is committed to “ growing an open global economy . ” but in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from globalization as we know it . xi and his circle apparently will not want to dismantle the global trading system . compared to the practice of standard post-world war ii , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements and less on multilateral negotiating rounds .
within singh ’s congress party , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . all policymakers in democracies think in the short term ; few have time horizons that extend beyond the next election . part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas the benefits of foreign investment take years to become apparent . the us congress can rightly take credit for the most far-reaching such program , the mahatma gandhi national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor rural family 100 days a year of paid employment . with his 20-year record of accomplishment to showcase the public , singh has a better case than most to trust voters when he says he acts in their long-term interest .
this means that , like lending by italian and spanish banks over the last several months , most of the new money will be lent locally to safe households and large established firms . the alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and the banque de france : the purchases by european banks of their countries ’ government bonds . ’ ’ ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements and restore their balance sheets to financial health , which implies that they will use ecb money in ways that give them time to meet this objective most of their cost effectively . so , for example , if they use the money to continue financing the private sector , they will ensure that loans go to creditworthy customers . that will allow bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that europe ’s economies now require .
turkey has an important role to play in its region and around the world , one that is undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all of its citizens . its disquieting approach to genocide is inconsistent with its efforts to cultivate a reputation as an honest , reliable partner . in doing so , it would improve its standing in europe and beyond . but symbolic measures , while important , are inadequate to bringing about real progress .
they want to talk to private-sector professionals who understand the technical and financial needs of their companies or sectors . for this reason , fdi has to be encouraged separately from domestic investment and exports . many promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failure of such institutional arrangements in the past . furthermore , foreign investors do not want to deal with diplomats or civil servants . yet , aside from costa rica ’s foreign investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in embracing best practices .
big mining companies can prepare for this shift , by moving from fossil fuels to other materials , such as iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , rare earth elements , and lithium , as well as the mineral fertilizers needed in large amounts to meet the sdgs ’ global hunger eradication goals . phasing out coal during times of latent overproduction might even be done at a profit . third , the world needs a better means of assessing mining ’s ecological risks . with the paris climate agreement a year old , the transformation of global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . companies with a large fossil-fuel portfolio , like coal , will soon face severe stranded assets , and investors may change their risk assessments accordingly .
but the observable diffraction pattern -- individual reflections ’ intensities and positions -- represents only about half of the data needed to de-politicize the object of diffracting . in mathematical terms , it gives amplitude , but not phases -- i.e. , the stages in an oscillatory motion -- without which atomic positions could not be fixed . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as a graduate student at bernal . the following year , he was given excellent hemoglobin crystals , and soon produced the best x-ray of diffraction patterns to date . he also acquired the first x-ray patterns of partly oriented samples of dna .
it began with the publication by the praesidium of the european convention on the future draft of the first sixteen articles of the “ treaty to establish a constitution for europe . ” the text mostly replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d'estaing ’s " skeleton " constitution , presented last november , and the conclusions reached by the convention 's working groups . the endgame to determine the final shape of the european union is underway . such fidelity , in turn , has not kept in place for economics . the key word here is mostly on the agenda .
propelled by population growth and urbanization , demand is outstripping supply . in nigeria , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion per year , firms pay more to do business . likewise , while all firms need investment data and operational decision-making , official emerging-market statistics are not always reliable , and often skewed policy agendas . in pakistan , for example , the census scheduled for 2008 passed nine years and beset by problems when it finally passed . in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion annually , firms pay more to do business .
nor have the closures spared leading regional outlets like siberian broadcastertv-2 , or kaliningrad ’s top independent weekly papers , novye kolesa . the rbc media group suffered a similar fate in 2016 . each of these outlets was distinguished by its coverage of sensitive narratives – from the conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . russia today has fewer press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent .
this month , thousands gathered for the un climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s target of limiting the increase in global average temperature to well below 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally to 1.5 ° above preindustrial levels – we must cut emissions dramatically . today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of businesses around the world are finally taking action . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for continued progress and continued surveillance are high . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the carbon pricing leadership coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 companies and strategic partners to put a value on carbon-dioxide emissions .
once greece goes , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy . there is nothing to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in switzerland , norway , or new york . at that point , the only thing still standing between the eurozone and the financial chaos will be the ecb , which could buy government bonds and fund a bank run . the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risk . but this could , in principle , step in – if northern europe allowed .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yes , lee ’s system enabled him to remain in power for 31 years , using civic – rather than criminal , the courts to harry his opponents . but , more importantly , lee also relied on elements of democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has triumphed over patronage . here , it seems clear that unmo ’s political interests have been allowed to dictate that the country ’s key opposition leader should be tried on charges that no true democracy that embraces the rule of law would even consider leveling , and convicted on evidence that no genuinely independent judiciary would accept . yet the path on which both countries have embarked was not lee .
trump ’s critics argue that he is playing to disaffected voters ’ basest instincts , hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , mistrust bankers ( or anyone with a college education , for that matter ) , and still can not get over the election of a president whose father was black . now , all of this may well be the case . trump , in the comedian jon stewart ’s words , is “ america ’s id , ” ” or , at least , the id of a large number of predominantly white , mostly older , predominantly small-town americans . but trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world . are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” like senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , called them ?
in europe , too , the picture is mixed . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain in recession , and their gdps will continue to shrink . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average growth rates are expected . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and still shows no sign of improvement .
after all , this is the advice of multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s national health service . malmö – “ everybody knows ” – should drink eight water glasses a day . sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable , but powerade offers this age counsel : “ you may be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid as you build your fluid intake gradually . ” a healthy living now means carrying water bottles with us , sipping at all times , trying to drink our daily quota to ensure that we remain hydrated and healthy . indeed , we often drink without being thirsty ; but that ’s how it should be : as a drink maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain may know a lot , but it does n’t know when your body is thirsty ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” .
can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities demanding long-distance automobile commutes ? what type of coal-fired power plants will be acceptable in the future ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide , as they have in the past ? firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting and face unprecedented risk penalties on their borrowing costs . they are also facing enormous uncertainties .
currently , an alphabet nonprofit soup and multilateral agency tackles elements of the challenge . these include independent groups such as refugees internationally ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) . while past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect for action is better this time , given that talks will take place in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been profound . weak mandates , insufficient funding , disorganized structures , and the absence of a global governance system have undermined inter-governmental agencies ’ capacity to operate with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . as i argue in germany this week , the g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reshape migrant governance systems with proactive protection policies to enhance people ’s trust in international leadership .
by the late 1950s , there were roughly 2000 computers in the world , and their processing power averaged 10,000 machine instructions per second . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co _ founder , gordon moore , noted that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow for a doubling of the transistors ’ density on a chip every eighteen months . there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue over the next few decades . the scale of the investment needed to make what is known as “ moore ’s law ” hold has grown exponentially alongside the density of transistors and circuits ; but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , and engineers see no immediate barriers that drive the process of improvement to a halt anytime soon . there are now 300 million new computers in the world , with processing power averaging several hundred million instructions per second -- the four 9,_ fold increase in raw automated computational power , the average annual growth rate of 56 % !
these multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge gaps in developing regions . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” and right now , we are at the cutting edge of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain access to health care . but neither corporations nor governments can do it alone . they need to work together to achieve the best possible outcome . by targeting schools as health-care education hubs and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities .
fortunately , he still has time , and many previous us presidents have set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized the state department to begin “ substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . and , starting with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now it is obama ’s turn , and should push for a united nations security council resolution that establishes new parameters for a future peace accord , and replace un security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria . at the end of 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters on a future peace framework .
indeed , on the other side of the world , the australian newspaper the australian state mentioned giffords 160 times in the six months after the shootings , compared to just one mention in the preceding 12 months . cho ’s history of mental illness was similarly widely discussed . though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in the us , media coverage continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . in this manner , the us may well export the stigma of mental-illness to the rest of the world . loughner ’s shooting of 19 people in the us in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as did court-ordered reviews of his mental competency .
for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the poorest country in europe . more important , successful reforms in ukraine are making positive developments in russia more likely . it is a key front in the global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . ukraine is a large country , with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential in many sectors .
but this strategy carries serious risks that ultimately make it unworkable . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the dollar , given that the eurozone is not a federalized state . realigning relative prices would require internal devaluation , which could lead to social and political instability in weaker countries .
should governments try to boost monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby boosting short-term interest rates ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ? should they employ unemployed workers , directly or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ? the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of orderly markets prove inadequate . economists disagree about when under what circumstances and in what order governments should move beyond these former two items on a checklist .
but even that agreement is not set in stone , because it depends on whether the negotiators can first agree on what to do about the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland , once the uk leaves the customs union . one can be in a border-free customs union or outside a customs union . the uk ’s ministers bear the brunt of the talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – have so far succeeded in securing agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 deadline of march 2019 , a two-year transition period will begin . it also includes a promise to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . there is no example anywhere in the world where this is not true .
a broader definition is needed , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric 2 % inflation target within the 1.5-2.5 % band over a longer time horizon . the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , that mandate should probably still be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , ” 2 % inflation over the medium term – is too narrow . the eurozone is also highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , a unifying safe asset , or macroeconomic stabilization tools .
when it comes to wishing for peace in the middle east – virtually a new year ’s tradition ­ – one needs attention . the israel-palestine conflict has lasted far too long . so many hopes have vanished in the bitter setbacks of so many negotiations . but we have a wish for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing peace , can create one of the preconditions of peace : goodwill . israel and palestine should jointly offer and welcome , the 2018 soccer world cup .
notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure . so the real question is how to get to the point where iraq has a police force and an army that can be trusted to uphold law in the same way as order . sharia law is being introduced in other areas . much of the ground must be covered to get anywhere close . old scores are settled in northern iraq , and de facto ethnic segregation is introduced in regions such as the irbil , which has been traditionally diverse .
the differences between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggest that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , if not in the way rumsfeld meant . given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . but moods in the two countries , as well as their perceptions of europe and their role in italy , starkly so . the unemployment rate is around 10 % ( still less than half the spanish rate ) , and annual gdp growth is around 1 % ( spain ’s ’s ’s gdp growth rate is negative ) . of course , it would be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland to bankrupt spain .
berlin – the decision by the united kingdom ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union is no example of the british black humor that i love . it ’s not “ monty python ’s flying circus , ” ” ” ” ” “ “ yes , prime minister , ” or “ fawlty towers ” ; it ’s just boris , michael , and nigel farage , and their disastrous political reality show . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave the eu ’s gaping hole in the eu . but it will not destroy europe , either . the same can not be said of the uk .
but , for both sides , as well as external powers , the 1948 events and what have followed – occupation since 1967 of the remaining lands of historic palestine – represents a tragic failure . israel is most at fault for this failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember the nakbeh , or “ disaster ” – their narrative of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . despite giving lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to leave the occupied territories continues in direct contravention of what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 termed the “ un recognition of land by force . ” but the international community , the palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility as well , albeit at various levels .
tantalizingly , they say that doing this would create “ a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , ” though they do not explain how this market is structured . moreover , unlike fiscal policy , recession insurance might impose no costs on the government , because if it stimulates confidence , then the risk that the money will be insured against is avoided . the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . reducing uncertainty might augment , or even be superior to , fiscal stimulus programs for it would address the root cause of an unwillingness to spend . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks might condition loans to firms on their purchase of recession insurance , which might help credit markets function better , addressing a serious problem underlying the current crisis .
first , both fiscal and external-account balances are to be kept in check in order to ensure financial stability and sustain a common currency . the greek saga shows that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crises . imbalances are not merely the result of irresponsible policies ; they are not . second , eliminating imbalances is national governments ’ responsibility in the context of a rescue regime arranged by supranational bodies – the european commission and the ecb – in cooperation with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone .
as a result , the trade surplus has continued to plummet , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing concern about a chinese slowdown . china ’s downturn appears to be a sudden one ; after all , its exports have been climbing at double-digit rates each month until may . in fact , the chinese economy has long been obscured , but has now been subject to tighter regulation of activities like speculative trading in the renminbi masquerading as trade payments . as a result , the trade surplus has continued to fall , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing concern about a chinese slowdown . china ’s downturn appears to be a precipitous decline ; after all , its exports have been rising at double-digit rates each month until may .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders adhere to the newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , m & a is only the first step . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine is currently in latin america – they have a responsibility not only to invest wisely and sustainably for their companies , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s ’s national investment priorities . for most equity investors , the value of any project depends on a great deal of efficient post-investment management . clear rights and duties therefore must be worked carefully in the early stages of investment , something that has been all but absent previously .
working alongside countries with which the us shares common values and interests , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to the skies and seas . and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s self-defense forces . to make a proactive contribution to peace means that japan will bear its own share of responsibility in assuring the security that supports global prosperity and stability . members of the self-defense forces displayed exemplary cooperation with american and australian armed forces in the wake of the great east japanese earthquake in 2011 , gaining deep appreciation and respect everywhere they have been deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and prosperous .
how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ? how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad be left with any credible negotiating capacity if talks can not begin until , as israel insists , they retreat on their minimum condition of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears fully out of the agenda . for all that israel downplays its significance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers a critically important bargain : full normalization of the entire arab world ’s relations in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . israel , as founding father david ben-gurion , has warned , can be a democratic state and could be an occupying israel ’s entire historic ; but it can not be all three .
but , even with favorable global market conditions , we failed to manage to address the poverty problem in which millions of russians still live . i am convinced that russia ’s woes all come down to politics . we need a democratic , competitive environment , an initiative at all levels , active civil society , and genuine public scrutiny . we russians rode together on oil and gas , forgetting that these resources would not last forever . nor was it the crisis that gave rise to corruption , affecting officialdom at all levels or causing russia to lose its democratic dynamic .
the first – and more desirable – view is for the ecb to judge realistically greece ’s lack of solvency , and so to stop lending venezuelan funds to its banking system . but allowing greece to default and still remain in the eurozone is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass huge debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention of repaying . yet forcing a defaulting greece out of the euro area , against its will , is not an option , either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , and there would doubtless be serious repercussions beyond the country ’s borders . in my judgment , there are only two viable options left behind . fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would be fatally undermined .
this brings us to the second key lever for expanding affordable housing : a more cohesive and efficient construction industry . by standardizing design elements such as cap heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction companies can cut costs and raise productivity as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks . for example , china imposes idle-land taxes on formerly public land if its owners fail to initiate the development process within a year . additional savings are possible through industrial approaches such as the use of components – such as wall street and flooring slabs – built an offsite . as it stands , housing-construction industries are highly fragmented , impeding its ability to seize economies of scale , and builders often rely largely on the same methods used 50 years ago .
if left unchecked , that figure is expected to climb to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly requested the hpv vaccine . that makes sense : of the 266,000 women dying from cervical cancer each year , an average of one every two minutes , compared to 85 % in the developing world . this is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met a couple of weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth stop cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the african conference . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not just an effective solution ; one that prevents 1,500 deaths per 100,000 of those vaccinated ; it is often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships among private firms , government bureaucrats and elected politicians . meanwhile , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy . corruption scandals have already hit the highest levels in brazilian society . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under indictment . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and executives have been tried and imprisoned .
i am not arguing against health-care capitalism , but a warning that support will become fragile , far more so than , say , globalization nowadays . most countries rely far too little on command and control , and provide far too few incentives for patients and providers to make efficient choices . this raises the long-term well being all around , but it exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions . yet it remains to be seen whether healthcare pressures ultimately create the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse , with a very large chunk of economics reverting to a more socialist system . some societies might decide that it is better to be red than dead .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell ad’s equations , which depict fundamentals in electricity and magnetism , “ have an independent existence and intelligence of their own , ” that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get more from them than was originally put into them . not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr the atomic model “ highest form of musicality ” in his sphere of thought . more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman describes his discovery of the new laws of physics , declared , “ you can recognize the truth by its beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiments are all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking could never produce the working iphones , photos of pluto or atomic bombs .
in a 1991 paper by allan drazen and alberto alesina , the economist , suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed because two contending groups are trapped in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but expect the other group to bear putin at the expense of it . why , with clearly formulated alternatives on the table , have the government opted for an predictably disastrous course of action , at such high human cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intention , and strategic interactions . let ’s start with the last one . by delaying , they provide information to the other group about their willingness to withstand pain .
a world in which the u.s. has a proven record of honoring the trust required to play the role of the global economic hegemon is a far better world for the u.s. than one that is not trusted . here is where the fed comes in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth , the u.s. would set in motion a rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . rather than see the 30 % euro appreciation that would follow from the ecb 's current monetary policy , german exporters are weeping out for measures to prevent america 's “ competitive devaluation , " ” finally bringing about the north 's current grinding inflation rather than that of the south . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a far better and safer world .
and a team of 47 republican senators wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next congress may not honor whatever the nuclear deal they reach with obama . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . but ensuring that the us can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require a different kind of engagement . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in the reality of continued multilateral engagement , and this has always been more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , multilateral leadership requires not only clearer and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to bear the costs of such rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold the “ responsibility to protect ” civilians , or by taking concrete steps to reduce – and eventually eliminate – the nuclear arsenals .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have ruined their country . whereas they claim to be redeemers in the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they are rejecting international assistance , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , dying ) from severe shortages of food , medicines , and medical supplies . that requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through a free and fair presidential election before the end of this year , as dictated by the constitution . destroying venezuela urgently needs to be stopped if its viability as both the state and society is re-established . to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down , because the loss of power would probably mean long prison terms in the united states for narcotics trafficking or in the hague .
indeed , over the last 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in the coastal provinces . but the effectiveness of such investments will depend on the sequence and pace of their implementation , and on how skillfully adapted to each locality ’s distinct resources , needs , and aspirations . so far , china has made a large part of the “ field of dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ “ build it , and they will come . ” and now china ’s leaders are increasingly embracing that strategy in their own right , making critical investments in physical and human capital . four interrelated issues must be addressed .
his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , exacerbated his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states simultaneously ; and , in the recent crisis , all he earned was a halt to mocking loudspeaker broadcasts . will kim respond to that isolation recklessly , by continuing to antagonize the south , or pragmatically , by becoming more elastic ? that is not an easy question to answer ; it is not an easy question . if china really is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost completely isolated internationally . it should be clear to kim by now that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country .
the only thing that has changed since then is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some young people . only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish immigrants – has highlighted the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that has developed in his country . europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more migrants . the statistics are puzzling and sometimes contradictory , but the european union ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million may grow by an additional 100 million migrants by mid-century . the need to address this outcome in france and across europe has become more important than ever , as rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged migrants matches the rise of far-right political parties .
countries where english is not a lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . as a result , the scale of research topics that many countries can commit is limited , and must struggle to retain scientific talent . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments are struggling to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . non-english academic journals simply do not command the same attention in the science community . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on channels that determine whether or not a academic has a success career , developing countries will have to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive footing .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address these concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his past or his links to the trump administration , but by his delivery .
the first , the secular stagnation hypothesis , has been proposed by larry summers . its key premise is that the equilibrium interest rate at which demand would balance supply is currently below the actual interest rate . this seems paradoxical , because interest rates are close to zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the real interest rate , that is , the difference between the market rate and inflation . there are , in essence , two competing explanations .
for their part , the african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during a crucial period of league play . but the most important lesson revealed by the cup of africa is that successful nations are those that combine globalization ’s opportunities with strong domestic foundations . for the cup ’s winner , cameroon , or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams loaded with star players from the european leagues , egypt , which fielded just four players ( out of 23 ) playing a role in europe . cameroon , by contrast , which egypt defeated in the final , featured just a single player from a home club and 20 from european clubs . few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans who watched that game , but egypt played a far better job and deserved to win .
berlin – the world ’s task in resolving north korea ’s saber rattling is no easier by confronting an impoverished and effectively defeated country . on the contrary , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight . the genius of the habsburg empire ’s prince klemens von metternich in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars was not pushing a defeated france into a corner . by contrast , as henry kissinger argued , victors in world war i could neither deter a defeated germany , nor provide it with incentives to accept the treaty of versailles . although metternich sought to deter any possible french resurgence , it restored france ’s prewar frontiers .
america had a brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 . but the economy actually grew in the interim – just barely enough to consider them distinct recessions . sometimes dating a recession is a call of judgment . and , with a transition from president jimmy carter to president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential that two recessions were identified . many economists believe that it was one major episode , and that is probably the appropriate way to think about it in a broader historical context .
in the 1990s , for example , the us sanctions regimes were introduced at an average rate of roughly seven per year . currently , the us has nearly 8,000 sanctions worldwide , with iran by far the largest us state goal . in fact , the overwhelming majority of us sanctions are enforced against small countries against small ones . currently , the us has nearly 8,000 sanctions worldwide , with iran far from the largest state goal . during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that some 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion , were subject to some form of american sanctions .
in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperately trying to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . trump is apparently antagonizing china for no good reason . in the same tweet justifying his phone call with tsai , trump reiterated the false charge that china is devaluing its currency to extract export advantages vis-à-vis the us . his understanding of international economics is either nonexistent or 10 years out of date . worse , by announcing that the us will withdraw from the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , at least partly , to shape global trade and investment flows according to western rules , rather than china ’s mercantilist vision , trump is also abandoning america ’s policy , which could control china ’s surging influence in asia .
likewise , russia is a country with a narrowly-based economy , led by a government focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . india is preoccupied with challenges to its economic development , and is tied to its contentious relationship with pakistan . while china is a frequently cited candidate , its leadership is focused mainly on consolidating the domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest . china ’s interest in regional and global institutions seems designed mostly to bolster its economy and geopolitical influence , rather than to help set rules and create broadly beneficial arrangements . what we do know is that there is no alternative great power willing and able to step in and assume what had been the american role .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth recorded since the second quarter of 2009 . since early 2010 , to contain inflation and property bubbles , the chinese government has tightened monetary policy . as a result , inflation has fallen in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices for which the national bureau of statistics , unfortunately , stopped issuing official data , seem to be stabilizing , and may even have fallen , albeit modestly . newly released growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china , but have prompted many to argue that china must stimulate its economy further in order to guarantee 8 % annual growth . the slowdown in china ’s gdp growth is , to some extent , a reflection of the government ’s success in attempting to rein in a real-estate bubble , as well as of other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddied by misplaced arguments , policy debates often go nowhere unless they frame abortion first and foremost as a health matter . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them off the global development agenda . but for how long will a majority serve a minority ? every day , more people arrive in nairobi , lured by the promise of employment , resources , and improved livelihoods , only to realize that they are not equipped to survive there , and that their children grow up in a slum . at least half of those living in urban slums are under the age of 20 . without access to education , this generation , which will soon be a majority , has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions .
the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost , to prevent all . all of these disasters – and many others still envisioned – are possible , with many of them unacceptable . the problem is that the principle can not be applied consistently . a world in which we live is a small garden of well-explored territory surrounded by a dim and dark-disaster forest . the disasters lurking in the distance are legion : asteroids and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions ; earthquakes and tsunamis ; human over-populations and non-people ’s extinction ; rising temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and spreading ice ages ; the depletion of clean air and water ; the disappearance of forests , farms , and fish .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , economic policy has focused on unemployment . but employment is just one welfare facet in today ’s world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . milan ’s massive job losses from the great depression – reversed only when world war ii , and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , restarting economic growth – have had a lasting impact on at least two generations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the cold war twentieth century pittsburgh pitted two rival military alliances against each other . by contrast , the sino-american rivalry involves two economies that are closely integrated with each other and with the rest of the world .
from 1968 to 1973 , british labor and conservative governments organized the removal of everyone living on the 55 islands that now constitute british indian ocean territory ( biot ) , and that split off from mauritius in its independence . this was done at the behest of the united states , which at the time was embroiled in the vietnam war and demands , for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia as an air and naval base . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend for themselves . the way in which the residents of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed and thrown off their land in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy for which the west can and should make restitution . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend for themselves .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed a second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his party won the general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration that seems willing to work with both technocrats and opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
in any case , counter-cyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during cyclical downturns now seems destined for an extended involuntary holiday . but the task of establishing whether a troubled entity is viable is the best left behind after the financial order has been restored . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently designed counter-cyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , the major advanced economies are likely to embark on a protracted spell of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns . owing to the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can issue emergency collateralized financing only to at least five eligible institutions – something of a problem if only your four largest banks are in trouble – and it must reaffirm that a counterparty is financially viable , before any funding can be made available . as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made available to systemically important financial institutions immediately , even when they are insolvent and resolution .
sovereign spreads are already pricing the domino risk , from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . the eu and the ecb are worried about the moral hazard of any “ bailout . ” fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing is more fragile and liable to fail without a war chest of liquidity to prevent a run on public debt , while appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility . at the same time , unless greece fully adjusting its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the ecb and the ecb are still likely to resist contagion risks to the rest of the euro zone and the consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . a default by greece , after all , could have the same global systemic effects as the collapse of lehman brothers did in 2008 .
human rights groups have long urged the necessity to expand the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal belt , where religion-based parties enjoy wide support . sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , this region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . such religious parties , a coalition of which now heads provincial government in the northwestern frontier province , have been politically marginalized until given a central role in pakistan ’s military dictator of the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert military intervention in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent pressure from washington have led to a u-turn by pakistan away from pro-jihad policies . throughout his rule , religion-based politics grew alongside the number of madrassahs and combatants trained and equipped by pakistani and american intelligence agencies .
throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . mainstream politicians may still nod reverently when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the world is going off to an older , more durable model . so history has once more triumphed over the ideology of the world . throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . it is tacitly accepted that in future , as in the past , the world will contain a wide variety of economic systems and regimes .
the first few years of his rule were dominated by his struggle to secure control of the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s staff . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom and used it as a cash cow ; many of his social programs were financed directly from the company ’s budget . his hostility to foreign players in the industry ( he expropriated several american oil companies in 2007 ) limited investment , and held back production . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which increased the number of accidents and limited production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear facilities is another possibility . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility , given the tremendous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran . moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and it might also create conditions that create problems for the regime ’s domestic opponents . one downside of such a prospect is that iran would most likely retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , and , with the us using hamas and hezbollah against israel and others , against israel and others . iran could also meddle in oil traffic , leading to a spike in prices and delivering a further blow to american and global economic recovery .
the lord north is remembered for losing the british union with america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing two trade – with europe and between england and scotland . and with northern ireland ’s republicans , led by sinn fein , demanding a vote to unify with the south , the uk ’s very existence is now squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should announce quickly that it will negotiate with the eu on the basis of the norway option for eea membership . whereas the conservatives want scotland to be in britain without europe , scottish nationalists want scotland in a europe without britain .
a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly partition of sectarian lines . assad ’s war aim has been reduced to avoiding a decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy in the hope of a favorable political solution . assad ’s final days are unlikely to be well enough . a power-sharing agreement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly partition along sectarian lines . the islamic state ’s rise did lend support to the government ’s claims that syria risks being overtaken by terrorist groups ; but the regime is finding itself increasingly isolated .
this is a narrative that afflicts all segments of society , the middle class , no less than the rich . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of society and have little need for government , it is not because this belief is corresponds to objective realities . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our time portrays markets as self-standing entities running on their own fuel . there is no reason to expect that the super-rich will act less selfishly than any other group .
here , the only explanation still seems to be the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , like manufacturing , to less-capital-intensive activities like services . if disorder has multiple causes , then there should be multiple treatments . finally , central banks should set a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public expenditure on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate the shortfall in private capital spending ; and still higher capital requirements for banks , and strengthened regulation of nonbank financial institutions to prevent them from excessive risk-taking . but , while it can explain why capital spending has been weak and interest rates low over the last three years , it can not account for why capital expenditure has been inadequate to prevent rates from trending down over three decades .
the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner — chairing a g-8 summit in saint petersburg , for example — appears to have been lost on putin 's kremlin cabal . once again exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents the façade of jurisprudence and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule . putin 's lawlessness is at stake . look at putin 's attempt to rig ukraine ’s ’s previous presidential election , and the on again criminal charges brought against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . across russia ’s ’s ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root .
in latin america , many people live with outstretched arms . there are too many entry barriers to the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres ” create clients rather than citizens , people who expect eu demands . democratic latin america limps sideways because it can not run ahead . across the region , the politicians that writer octavio paz once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres ” create clients instead of citizens , people who expect eu demands .
the wef ’s global competitiveness index ( indexes ) and its new , inclusive growth and development index ( indexes ) are two examples . but this is not what these indexes really measure . instead , indexes include variables – what they refer to as “ policy space ” – that supposedly cause either competitiveness or inclusive growth . for example , competitiveness has to do with the ability to increase market share without sacrificing margins or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity . inclusiveness growth has to do with income disparities and growth across diverse regions and social groups .
whether one considered the dutch welfare state humane and generous , or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . from the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” there were so many generous subsidies , grants , and transfer payments – aimed at everyone from the truly needy to the artists , unable to sell their jobs – that after-tax pay often barely exceeded the benefits . so people rarely returned to work after losing or leaving a job , or did so in the underground economy , with its unreported cash payments . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch responded to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to promote a return to work in the formal labor market .
yet significant segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless the us falls into recession in the coming months , trump will be reelected . but , in their apparent acceptance of trump ’s reelection , large segments of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s financial and industrial elites , when hitler rose to power in the 1930s . moreover , their prognosis is not based only on fear of being wrong again ; many seem resigned to such an outcome , and some may even hope for it . at this point , the comparison with the 1930s inevitably comes to mind . of course , trump and adolf hitler have little in common .
in order to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , providing youth opportunities , whatever their backdrop , to ascend the income ladder . at the same time , market mechanisms are not enough to achieve this . governments need to take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that gains are shared much more equitably and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have been trying to tackle inequality with progressive redistribution policies . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 , won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 .
israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their helmets so that tank gunners could direct their fire at egyptians just ahead . but paratroopers , helicopter gunships , suddenly jumped the egyptian gun crews who never had a chance in a hand-to-hand combat . still , the egyptian artillery was superior , and was supposed to have at least silenced the tanks firing at the trench lines . the egyptian defenses have blocked a middle highway across the sinai with an enriched box containing powerful artillery and more than 100,000 tanks , fronted by three parallel trench-lines manned thousands of infantrymen , and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at each end . sharon had his troops ascent over sand dunes to enter the trench lines at their summit and strikes down their length , a simple maneuver that the egyptians could have defeated have not pinned by an artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing directly at them .
in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . in the last three years , 11 % of australia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s population has completed such a course , partly owing to requirements that people in certain positions , such as child-care workers , hold first-aid certifications . such certifications are even more important in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . requiring that people in particular occupations – including high-school teachers , nurses , and police officers – acquire mental-health first-aid certifications would dramatically enhance participation , thereby reinforcing support for those struggling with mental-health problems . pilot work in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to communities with scarce resources .
some of the quality producers of generic drugs , such as india ’s cipla , have offered to provide such drugs at prices near the cost of production . but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries , combined with the assurance that poor people gain access to the health-care investment that they desperately need ? in response to this offer ( and to bad publicity ) , merck , the abbott laboratories , and bristol myers squibb , three large patent-holding companies have announced that their willingness to supply the african market at “ zero profits ” – ie , at about $ 500 per patient per year for the aids drugs they produce . the costs of producing these drugs , however , are far less than the market price , perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 per year for some three-drug combinations used to treat aids . the tragedy of a million impoverished people dying from aids , even as drugs exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights , because patent protection is creating a barrier to essential medicines reaching the world ’s poor .
this reading is reinforced by the experience of macron himself . but what if populist movements ’ continued electoral success helps to drive forward a broader political restructuring that ultimately reinforces european democracy ? next year ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential of such political restructuring . having never held elected office , macron has created a new party centered on himself with support from both center-left and center-right voters . he seems to have restructured french politics in the process .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of time magazine ’s “ person of the year ” “ ” ” ” issue featured salome karwah , a nursing assistant who not only survived the ebola epidemic in her native liberia that year , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . karwah was a hero who met a tragic end . one year ago , she died from complications in childbirth , a killer that each month takes twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended in a mother ’s death . birth rates were dangerous for women and newborns throughout human history , and each of them lives lost as a whole .
the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political question for syria ’s neighbors . an estimated two million syrians live in turkey , and more than one million live in jordan . unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally vigilant on programs that could cost their citizens jobs . most live outside refugee camps and many of them illegally .
the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq were undoubtedly complicated . but the language used by those wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight from the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” one reason that americans elected obama in 2008 was that the rhetoric of america ’s idealism led once again to the death and displacement of millions . now , when us policymakers talk about “ liberty , ” ” ” ” people see bombing campaigns , torture chambers , and the constant threat of lethal drones . the problem for obama is rooted in the contradictory nature of his administration .
in the past , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and these exercises can not be explained as simple “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news – by design . but that ’s because bush did not begin to address an issue that is looming ever larger in the region : the changing face of security in asia in view of china ’s growing economic and military might . for example , this was followed by russian news reports that china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises named “ indira 2005 , ” ” ” ” on the same scale before the end of this year . this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise .
proven systems and reforms should be shared among emerging-market cities , with successful new innovations and ideas to accommodate local conditions . they should consider reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and responsibility they need to address health and health-care outcomes . anticipatory urban planning , based on realistic demographic forecasting , patient registers , and health-information systems , as well as participation in urban health-knowledge networks , needs to be introduced . this includes new and affordable technologies , such as low-cost community-health workers ’ mobile telephony . emerging-market governments need to address the critical issues that arise from weak intra-city coordination , and between national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs .
shanghai – tight media control over the unrest in tibet has been followed by what , to some , looks like far more open coverage of the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . this question stands out against chinese public opinion in the latter stages of the tibet crisis . much to the consternation of the western media , the chinese worldwide lashed out against its supposedly biased tibetan revolt . the thrones of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets , protesting the prejudices they perceived in western media reports . is this a change in china ’s media strategy , or just a brief moment of change in tactics ?
meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( the polymers of glucose ) , which was also transported to the liver via the glycolycolytic pathway , and broke down for energy . so their livers , too , remained healthy . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which transported glucose to peripheral fat tissues , and also caused the liver to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . as a result , our forebears ’ livers stayed healthy . and nature did its part by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate like an energy resource , not both .
across africa , the disease is estimated to have lowered the average national growth rate by 2-4 percentage points per year . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already won the battle against hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has merely become less visible . sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and 34 million people living with hiv/aids , who require treatment to stay alive .
the uk would have to adopt the type of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping . if that democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , it will be left out of the economic cold . leaving the single market would create grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial sector . remaining in the single market , however , comes at a cost , one that british voters may not endorse . even the us has said that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the eu .
for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite since the 1978 “ saur revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will be even more nerve-wracking . as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly influence the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . the first is the management of the transition to afghan control , which depends on the orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by the end of 2014 . the second is the election , also to be held in 2014 by a new afghan president – a process that needs to permit the united states and its nato allies to claim the plausibly that they are handing the country over to legitimate governments . as the american military abandons , it enters another period of political and strategic uncertainty after almost a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated , democratic societies knowingly walk into predictable , avoidable national catastrophe is a rare and alarming experience . they are not sleepwalking into the abyss ; their eyes are wide open . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on the post-brexit relationship will cause enormous damage to their countries . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions or through military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by outside powers . indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening may prove accurate only in the short term . in fact , even if america were not trying to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its longstanding – and already much-diminished – support for the castro government . this is no longer an option , either . normalization of us-american relations is key to liberalization in cuba .
while countries have not descended fully into protectionism since the eruption of the global financial crisis began , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets while trying to gain external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is on hold , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , initiating genuine currency wars in the process misses the mark . weidmann is well aware that weidmann does not like it when central banks , particularly the european central bank , purchase sovereign-bond markets . but , while vigilance is in order , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , initiating genuine currency wars in the process misses the mark . in recent years , much political activity has been focused , directly or indirectly , on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions .
the us census bureau projects that america 's population will grow 49 % over the next four decades . a 1 % increase in the number of immigrant college graduates leads to a 6 % increase in per capita patents . moreover , even though studies suggest that the short-term , directly measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer competitive , skilled migrants may be important to particular economic sectors . not only are immigration relevant to economic power ; given that almost all advanced countries are aging and face the burden of providing for older generations , it could help reduce the sharpness of the policy problem . today , the u.s. is the world 's third most populous country ; 50 years from now it still is probably third ( after only china and india ) .
in fact , just two of the six major economic tasks identified by the labor conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . a new approach is needed , and will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework . the call for enhanced social security is consistent with the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to fund safety-net programs , such as pensions and health care . likewise , the emphasis on markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure , and eliminating excess capacity , is compatible with the third plenum ’s objective of achieving a market-based shift to consumer-society . but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of timeworn “ kitchen sink ” access to chinese economic policymaking , myriad proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best , and that are often plagued by internal inconsistencies .
as european growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let the economic slowdown do the job for it . the essential economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is falling headlong into a severe slump – bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to that . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy , including europe , will escape its consequences . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices on world markets , all of which are important factors behind currently elevated european inflation levels .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest european friend ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems intent on changing that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia could become a menace to the continent again . all the major players in russia ’s ’s energy-centric economy quickly fell into line politically , enabling putin to take advantage of the country ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . as a result , whereas hungary is paying gazprom $ 260 in cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 – the highest price in the eu . eu countries that he could not bully militarily , owing to nato , have been wooed with discounts or punished with price hikes . poles have paid a steep price , but they have been right .
the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . but , while accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little sound basis . in fact , biopiracy is rare , so rare that it can be addressed directly . instead , the world has created a baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and the creation of intellectual property . the seed treaty has also brought under the control of its parties and the secretariat to the 15 research institutes that comprise the consultative group on international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , the influential global research partnership .
in fact , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei has curbed his illicit efforts – and has now put a stop to mashai ’s candidacy altogether . moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , the non-state media are now publicly criticizing his economic and political agenda . he has also reduced the resource channeled through certain religious institutions , helped those within his circle to establish private banks by easing regulation , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military establishment , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the presidency has declined significantly , with even state-run media alluding to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” with ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , the disgraced , unpopular president recep tayyip erdoğan ’s ruling establishment seems unlikely .
under monti ’s leadership , the reforms were eventually started , and the markets were calmed . as the economist marco fortis points out , the italian family ’s wealth remains , if not for long , second to none in europe . to enhance the credibility of his public finances , monti ’s government substantially increased taxes , especially on real estate , while preserving the already record-high income-tax rate . the tax plan has highlighted that italy , like japan , is a country of public debt and private wealth . beyond growing international credibility , two major changes to the italian political landscape have shaped the electoral campaign .
one of the hardest lessons for senior government officials to learn – ­ including for me , when i was the australian attorney general and foreign minister – is the futility of all but a tiny minority of cases , of trying to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . prosecution typically boosts leakers ’ stature , making it useless as a deterrent . it does not undo the original damage , and usually compounds it with further publicity . the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than they perceive it as reddening the faces , with rage or humiliation , of those in power . but some lines need to be drawn if good government is to be possible , just as a zone of privacy in our personal and family lives is crucial to sustaining the relationships that matter most to us .
she wants to get out before voters realize that the leave campaign has sold them a false bill of goods , including a promise that they can keep all of the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without having to allow a free movement of labor . clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that satisfies the two groups . this helps to explain may ’s desperation to push brexit through as fast as possible . moreover , while may has been in the “ remain ” camp during her referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will be held accountable for possible failures in the brexit negotiations . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while scarcely notice of “ wins ” ” ” .
among other things , such surveys should aim to produce a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drugs , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . to complement this effort , we must also invest in improving our understanding of how these risk factors , most often studied in connection with early childhood and adulthood , influence adolescents ’ health . more studies are needed to inform health policy and planning adequately . according to the global disease study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of early death and disability among adults aged 50 and over ; for young people , that figure drops to 26 % . data-collection efforts should also include targeting mental health .
but talk of regime change may have prompted musharraf to re-enter politics . pakistan these days is a troubled country , politically as well as economically . thus , in a protracted interview with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution that could save the country from its current woes . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan , and the place that people go to is the military , ” he said . only a politician holding the support of major constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate whom the military might support .
first , governments could be bound more firmly to their predecessors ’ policy decisions . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that has been debated and enacted will have time actually to take effect , with no risk that it will simply be canceled by a subsequent administration . with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , the western democracies find themselves struggling to secure stable long-term growth in a sense that , say , an authoritarian china does not . there are at least two ways to address this problem in a democratic context . the european union provides one example of how long-overdue binding commitments can work .
at the wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement , demanding that education be placed at the agenda of every politician running for election , at all levels of government . for the sdgs , education has to receive higher bilaterally , nationally , and globally . this starts with both political will and a setting of priorities . moreover , the ongoing decline in aid to education must be reversed , with new sources of financing such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists being mobilized . incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public spending to education .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar peg ties its hands on the dollar , because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to tight reserve requirements , effectively ratifying credit , and thereby causing a domestic credit squeeze in the midst of the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some medium-sized banks into bankruptcy due to liquidity problems . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , has exploded to no less than 52 % in the last year , which points to inflation hitting 30 % soon . rationing is always worse than a market , and the economy is suffering as a whole . ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % annually , 10 % less than the inflation rate , implying that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year .
the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime , & a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before , because neither the conservatives nor the reformers were willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . iran would then find it hard to maintain its foothold in lebanon , with its position becoming more complicated even in iraq , despite its shia majority . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are equally likely to play a role . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this route to failure will be closed off . the fall of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then face a united front in the arab states , backed by turkey , the us , and israel .
the eu ’s approach to sharing power , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict through multiple committees can be frustrating and lacks drama , but it is becoming increasingly relevant on many issues in a networked and interdependent world . as mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe has come and gone . ” its lack of vision , divisions , its obsession with legal frameworks , its unwillingness to project military power , and a sclerotic economy contrasts sharply with the united states more dominant even than rome … yet the problem is our outdated understanding of power . the american political scientist andrei moravcsik makes the similar argument that european nations , singly and collectively , are the only states other than the us that is able to “ exert global influence across the full spectrum from the ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’ power ’ . insofar as the term retains any meaning , the world is bipolar , and is likely to remain so over the foreseeable future .
tehran – iranians will go to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s re-election is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is actually not at all clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly stated in public settings that he will not declare a preference among the candidates . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there were some rumors that i support a special candidate for the presidential election . but i have one vote , and i would n’t determine some candidate , because the people themselves should choose their candidates based on their own knowledge .
likewise , moving to a territorial tax system will raise taxable earnings , especially in the short run , as companies repatriate some of the existing overseas money stock . but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower personal income tax rates will boost taxable incomes as individuals increase earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will return to surplus . while the net tax changes may widen the budget deficit in the short run , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . the republicans have only a very small majority in the senate , where the filibuster rule requires a three-fifths majority to pass on most legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block a republican tax agenda .
the eu must also revitalize its operations sophia initiative to fight refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . addressing genuine economic and social needs in the eu requires an effective blue – or green-card policy for economic migrants , with an overall immigration target . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis was introduced . second , europe needs the management of economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately . combining them has brought its asylum system close to collapse ; separating them would help ensure that those in fear for their lives can be given a fair hearing in which their rights are protected .
but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the asian crisis of 1997 was caused by large public deficits . in both cases , the effort to defend a fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals has been a major factor , as was true in turkey in the year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 . to what extent are today ’s conditions comparable to those that triggered the asian crisis of 1997 , or to other abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe make it more emerging-market trouble this year ? emerging-market bulls highlight that most other middle-income countries have substantially lowered their public-sector debt/gdp ratios , giving them fiscal room they have lacked in the past .
at the same time , younger people in their fifties and sixties want to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week . at the same time , younger people in their fifties and sixties want to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week . one possibility is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and an average working life that extends up to age 70 and even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise . such a reform could take place over a few decades without slowing economic growth or shrinking prosperity . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies allow older people to work more years and allow everyone to work fewer hours .
british public opinion is now so hostile , to the eu in general , and to the europeans in particular , that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . denmark ’s government has done just that , and seems to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . it is this commitment by which the government is now bound . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try . “ bouncing ” britain in is simply impossible .
a recent report by the bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies the new coalition . while the bush administration remains skeptical of the science behind such projections , some state and local governments are enacting measures to cut carbon emissions . more important , companies like general electric are committing to green goals that go well beyond government regulation . the center of the range of scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times their pre-industrial levels in 2100 . while president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb oil imports in the long run , such measures require major transportation infrastructure changes that will require decades to complete .
achieving this kind of education probably means pursuing what one naturally finds exciting and engaging , whether through finance or physiology . at the same time , they should invest in acquiring the communications skills that will be similarly critical to successful careers . hardly anyone makes it all along in the business world . an important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to attain deep understandings , not rote memorization , subjects that they study to fulfill the role of true experts in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue . people in these fields are ultimately bought and sold off by corporate managers as much as people in technical fields .
but this day is also about spreading the message in the name of elizabeth and other women like her : abortion , while in many countries a political wedge issue , is simply a fact of life . in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties ; 59 % are already mothers ; and almost two-thirds identify with organized religion . each year , 25 % of all pregnancies – some 56 million – are terminated . abortion occurs in each country , and within every socioeconomic class . but abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services is often limited .
the second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages because they understand that this would only lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . this argument is not irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a tough ecb stance . the ecb should not delude itself into thinking that a small interest-rate hike will be enough . if and when wage pressure occurs , the ecb , to remain true to its word , may be forced to raise interest rates far more than it now expects .
megaupload has enabled its 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , television shows , and music , and some of the money earned by dotcom ( from advertising and subscriptions ) has been on display at his mansion near auckland , where he kept his rolls-royce and other exotic cars . last month , the united nations considered legislation aimed at stopping internet piracy . bills were written at the urging of hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries , which argue that violations of online copyright have cost america 100,000 jobs . dotcom ’s lawyer argues that the megaupload merely provided storage for its subscribers , and has no control over what they are storing . but the megaupload has offered cash rewards to users who uploaded news that has proven popular with other users .
moscow – when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins in just a few days , viewers will be presented with a minutely choreographed spectacle of a swathed in nationalist kitsch . indeed , by opting out of albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , to design a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics , which was a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . of course , images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are just the last thing china ’s leaders have in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of a “ harmonious development . ” but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallels are hardly far-fetched . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to transform public space and sporting events into visible proof of their fitness and mandates to rule .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger since then . but it has also made the subject less relevant , reducing its legitimacy and credibility . economists no longer see the right questions , or seek to answer them with integrity . to recover credibility , economics need to become more open to criticism of assumptions , methods , and outcomes . the inconvenient truths spoken by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely .
europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . the united states is a reckoning with a psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority . china , by contrast , is both dynamic and outward-looking – providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability , and global leadership . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd .
in keeping with china ’s recent efforts to project its “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced the idea of a historic but dynamic culture at its best . equally significant was china ’s projection as nascent leader of the new international cultural order . other than the presence of a few people ’s liberation army soldiers , you would be hard pressed to find visible evidence of the reigning communist regime or its founder , mao zedong . many of the artists involved in creating the spectacle , including the fireworks specialist catherine guo qiang , the dance star shen wei , and the composer tan dun earned their fame mainly in the west . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium was the creation of the multinational design team of herzog & de meuron , with suggestions from visual artist ai weiwei .
my research , which has included thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , has centered on one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they are already doing on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is through the promotion of financial independence . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” a ” network of like-minded women who pay dues to build a shared resource pool . this money can then be drawn on to fund any number of items , such as small business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs .
what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative global government , but the fact that the g8 now seems numbered . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spreading around the world , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . politically and economically , china and india are more important today than some of the european g8 members . so the outcome of the summit was far from a miracle . president putin ’s behavior at the summit made it clear what he thinks about europeans ; not too much .
in most areas , the epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some short-run losses . african leaders are right to be concerned . though the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the trade gains brought on by epas , as it has negotiated , are likely to be focused on a few agricultural products and exclude the least-developed countries . some argue that the problem is more about timing , because the losses are likely to materialize , and the potential benefits brought by increased eu access will take longer to emerge .
in 1995 , for example , the smithsonian institution in washington sought to take a fresh view of the enola gay , a plane that dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima . john dower , the american historian and modern japan specialist , studied the issue at length . he demonstrated how history can be presented and valued in totally different ways : from the american or japanese point of view , even though no one is making facts or falsifying sources . selection and a combination of data is enough , and we know it . for the americans , there was `` a heroic , or triumphant account , '' in which atomic bombs constitute the final blow against an aggressive , fanatic , savage enemy .
it would have to paved the way together at the october 17 meeting of the european council , where european leaders are growing increasingly frustrated with the entire process . that show has years to run . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the civil-service team that led the previous negotiations . any new deal will be may ’s old deal with some bells and whistles . it will push real issues down the road rather than end the brexit debate .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own people has left the void that putin and iran have been filling . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood has not been enough , we have also enabled right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the european union itself . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who frighteningly , but not surprisingly , resemble putin and erdoğan . european leaders too often shout from the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán in particular , have been busily constructing intra-eu illiberal states .
to deliver opportunities and security to everyone , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of the benefit systems . for example , delivering the benefit of points , ” ” ” ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would allow regimes to operate across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would retain value as they migrated with those who earned them . a common framework must also be created to allow such programs to be scaled up and occur in different contexts .
moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil will respond to crisis in a very different way to mexico . if and when the two sides , brazilian policymakers will shed few tears for international investors . on the surface and at the bottom , brazil has made a dramatic turn : inflation is down to insignificant levels . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are concerned with their own well being , not with the prosperity of foreign investors . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are concerned with their own wellbeing , not with the prosperity of foreign investors .
but do n’t despair : there is still time to save our climate . by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be locked in forests and soils . but , while the techniques already exist , success will require increasing use of no-till farming , embracing permaculture principles , better management wetlands , and the use of rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . the power of markets to drive radical changes in energy and land use is great ; but , as the 2017 storm season should remind us , the climate emergency we face demands vigorous and urgent action . transforming how people acquire and consume energy and use land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success .
several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – disagree completely on the details of such regimes , or simply have not spelled them out . warren , meanwhile , has proposed the introduction of universal childcare , funding a wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million . but , after former us president barack obama has attempted to redress the american health-care disaster with halfway measures , arguably the most politically feasible at a time , those vying for the democratic nomination have clearly had more ambitious plans . many democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of government-sponsored health care . but their proposals – a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , the national health service , or something else – do not all imply the same thing .
but there is another explanation , one fully consistent with rationality and self-interest . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face the challenge of asymmetric information . when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises they make . they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe leaders who seem no different from the previous crop of politicians who oversold them the gains from globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances ? voters are more likely to attract candidates who have anti-establishment credentials and can safely be expected to deviate from prevailing policies .
president paul kagame ’s landslide reelection last year had more to do with power than with democracy . while kagame remains popular , his government was widely criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . politically , rwanda is strong , disciplined , and organized . the conclusion i draw is not that human rights do not matter , but rather that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is to lasting progress on economic and institutional governance . today , leaders in rwanda widely considered an african success story to improve stability by moving away from the washington consensus access to governance .
moreover , there is a clear , shared interest in doing so : no one benefits from widening systemic risk . it is this threshold that appears to be under threat . from its perspective , it is arguably more important for g-20 governments to strengthen core systems that enable global flows than address strictly economic issues . continued economic progress in the developing world , and healing in the advanced countries , requires preventing local and regional conflicts from delivering large systemic shocks . cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on a threshold level of safety , stability , and predictability .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that big banks have never properly investigated for mortgage origination , aggregation , and securitization behavior that was central to the financial crisis – and a loss of more than eight million jobs . but leading banks are also being blamed for illicit behavior – inducing people to borrow , for example , by decrying them about the interest rates that actually would pay , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focused on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . if these charges are true , bank executives involved may fear that civil lawsuits would uncover evidence that might be used in criminal prosecution . but , as a result of new york attorney general ’s efforts , eric schneiderman , and others , serious discussion has begun in the united states about an court mortgage settlement between state attorney generals and a prominent financial-sector firms .
“ over the rivers and down highways and along countless jungle paths , east pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage into india : the endless unorganized flow of refugees with few tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and the ragged clothes piled on their heads , carrying their sick children and their old . they pad along barefooted , with mud sucking at their heels in wet parts . others have cholera , and when they die by a roadside that there is no one to bury them . many are sick , and covered in their sores . they are silent except for a child whimpering now and then ; but their faces tell the story .
a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a decaying world order . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that drove european integration and kept it at the center of the postwar multilateral system . with the uk giving world free trade in the 1840s having now decided to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are putting national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . now the global spotlight is turning to france and its looming presidential election . charges of currency manipulation and threats of protectionist measures have intensified .
new york – when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my native sri lanka , i was unable to wait for my first sex education class . in our early teens , my classmates and i found it as curious as we were clueless in sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving robust answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply handed a book , told to read a particular chapter , leaving to figure things out on our own . millions of young people around the world have similar experiences , often with serious adverse consequences . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , travel there has already provided a wake-up call for firms and policymakers around the world . “ if revolution is to occur , let us rather commit it than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” none of the disputes that china has benefited enormously today , the impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . china ’s presence is felt worldwide , from coastal mines in africa to apple ’s shops in the united states . it is the volume of the world ’s largest exporter , and it is the world ’s second-largest economy . as the us reflects china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to consider how china continues to fall short of overcoming systemic obstacles to long-term success .
us president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but this is merely downward shove to an economy that was already slowing as it makes the shift away from exports – and investment-led growth to more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . unfortunately , the option of avoiding a transition to consumer-led growth and continuing to promote exports and real-estate investment is little appealing , either . a significant chinese slowdown may already be unfolding . china is already the dominant global exporter , and there is neither the market space nor the political tolerance to allow it to sustain its previous pace of export expansion . how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given an intrinsic contradiction between an ever-more centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could fall quite dramatically .
the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy . the arab world faces major problems that can be met only through a more flexible , democratic political system . a well-educated citizenry is also essential if young men and women are to acquire the skills needed to perform the sort of jobs in today ’s global and competitive world demands . alas , instead of progress , what we are seeing is a cycle of deficient educational opportunity that is leading to a lack of economic opportunity . a democracy requires an informed citizenry able to question its government .
with kurds – most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the united nations security council has remained typically silent , while the europeans have denounced all and everyone involved . as foreign-policy disasters go , that is one on record books . but the seeds for this larger conflagration have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . absent any coherent policy , the conditions were ripe for a crisis . a president threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if it does what he enabled it .
it is well documented that europe and the united states have under-invested in infrastructure . and such an approach would cement the notion that central-bank policy is “ the only game in town , ” relishing elected government leaders of their responsibility for the pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices that they control . but a <UNK> ter-money program – a fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also present a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an abundance of caution about citizen and investor perception , confidence , and robust governance structures . a less risky and time-tested route for stimulating demand would be a major increase in government-financed investment in public infrastructure . from a macroeconomic perspective , infrastructure investment is a “ twofer ” ; it strengthens productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and , where scarce capacity lies , boosts demand , output , and employment with significant short-run multiplier effects .
as a result , the railways run out of money before running out of plans . and , if all of this were not bad enough , india ’s leadership seems unable to recognize the challenges that the railways present . in a country where rail passengers can not even anticipate a clean toilet , let alone on-time arrival , prime minister narendra modi has spoken out for introducing bullet trains – the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . with the government losing $ 4.5 billion annually by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding up trains . in the last 30 years alone , just 317 of 676 projects sanctioned by parliament have been completed , and it is hard to imagine how railways will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the remaining 359 projects .
cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and right-leaning “ red ” states where many are located . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . a number of organizations have now emerged to strengthen city governments ’ policy-making capacity , including michael bloomberg ’s government innovation program , fuse corps , results for america , social finance , third sector capital partners , and usafacts . under federalism , whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” rules , state and local governments are often assumed to be pursuing the same goals .
we need to look beyond these figures to identify who really is responsible for fomenting a political climate where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered a mainstream of public discourse . let ’s start with “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . murdoch ’s newspapers and television networks might just as well have patented the recipe for fomenting , dog-whistle politics that drove trump ’s rise and the brexit vote . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the united kingdom and the us , not to mention his native australia – in favor of profit and political influence . it is not until we identify the sources of the odious virus now afflicting our democracies that we can take practical steps toward a quarantine them .