another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . the middle east will remain the middle east ’s central pillar of world energy for decades to come , whether it can ultimately export more power than instability is the key question . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region mired in turmoil , the complexities of which defies analytical consensus . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , may diminish that region ’s relevance . do the region ’s crises stem from a lack of peace with israel ?
and pakistan then becomes even more determined to try to stay ahead of india . with russia and america holding 18,000 globally ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any other nuclear-armed states to reduce their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the big us takes on further drastic cuts to theirs . with china taking this course , india – outside the npt , but with 100 arms of its own – it feels compelled to add to its own arsenal . this deterrence logic generates a snowball effect . china shares russia with anxiety over america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority , and it increases and modernize its estimated 240-weapon stockpile .
the early industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred despite the loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . how , precisely , were these accomplishments to emerge ? two centuries later , that was no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries that the industrial revolution had proliferated ; for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian subsistence benchmark . they emerged despite a tripling of populations that placed extraordinary malthusian strain on the economy ’s underlying natural-resource base , and , despite the mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for almost a century of intensive warfare against france , a power with three times britain ’s ’s ’s ’s population . what were the small differences that turned out to matter so heavily ?
the referendum ’s ’s outcome has had little effect on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is simply another crisis to be managed , rather than the existential implosion that london-centric british papers have come to mind . her government has formed the council of international trade , to be charged with drafting trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission had previously handled such arrangements ) . perhaps , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of a political strategy . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage the political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . may is in no haste to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though she faces re-election next year , increasingly desperate french president françois hollande is saying she is ) .
whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment . venezuela has attempted to fund itself with assistance from the china development bank , which does not impose the kinds of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . instead , the cdb lends on classified terms , for uses that are undisclosed and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas such as telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . the chinese have not demanded that venezuela do whatever it takes to raise the likelihood that it regains its creditworthiness . they simply cite more oil as collateral .
moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty that would replace a fragile international moratorium can not come into force without american senate ratification . with lugar ’s defeat , and the simultaneous exit of the latest republican moderates , like senator david snowe of maine , preparing to place national interests ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties , should they negotiate negotiations . it featured two clips of obama , who declared that i had worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law , ” ” ” ” ” and “ what i had been reaching out to us senator dick lugar . one tv advertisement has said all of this about the tea party ’s low-rent cynicism of the tea party tea party campaign . the context has not been explained , but what obama said in full was this : “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and “ what i was reaching out to us senator dick lugar .
the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , have always feared a form of betrayal . they have called their crime izmena rodine – a treachery of the motherland – and have married this high moral language to fewer transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally . secure states tend to forget about treason . the soviets , with their brittle legitimacy , have always feared a betrayal . perhaps it will be imprisoned for assisting the terrorists , but its treachery generates little resentment .
like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs , and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic effect . but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs that have similarly been forced upon people – and even applied to torture prisoners – on a large scale . though ect ’s opponents believe that it does cause brain damage to brain damage , this is hard to show . but , while ect rarely leads to clear clinical evidence of brain damage and has not been shown to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs do regularly do so under tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . and , whereas few people now get ect involuntarily , and in all cases the consent of all cases is sought , a large and growing number of get antipsychotic drugs under bogus tences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and a host of others whose lives are shortened by treatment , with no effort undertaken to seek their consent .
new york – singapore ’s trade negotiators recently failed to finalize an agreement on a long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon face yet another chance to complete what would become the world ’s largest regional free trade agreement . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and ten other pacific rim countries with combined annual output of about $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout compares their aspirations ; talk goes beyond traditional trade issues that account for just five out of 29 proposed chapters ; and consider a broad range of investment and regulatory issues that affect many millions of people – rather than always positively . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complicated question . but , given grave concerns that the tpp will fail to contemplate important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration .
late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to achieve a consensus for open education ’s ideals and approaches , and we committed ourselves to them at cape town ’s open education declaration , officially released on january 22 . open education promises to turn the current textbook production pipeline into a vast dynamic knowledge ecosystem , one that is in a permanent state of creation , utilization , and improvement . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interactions among students and teachers globally . exciting talk about open education is that free access is only just the beginning . open education promises to turn the current textbook production pipeline into a vast dynamic knowledge ecosystem that is locked in a permanent state of creation , utilization , and improvement .
almost 70 years ago , when george orwell examined a tendency toward ambiguity , he offered a rather simple explanation that “ “ political speech ” and writing are largely the defense of indefensible . what , in his view , are the boundaries of american engagement ? under what conditions would the american people ’s use of its capabilities ? massive violence against civilians is “ pacification , ” ” ” ” and ethnic cleansing is the “ transfer of populations . in other words , hazy language is necessary to obscure unsavory realities .
brussels – to many in the west , china appears to have gone from a country that is “ keeping a cool head ” and maintaining a low profile , ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves good international bust-up . but the point in reciting that litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it demonstrates the dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ normal ” power of its own , the world will forget about hundreds of millions of people that it still need to pull out of poverty . the chinese leadership seems to recognize this dilemma , and it is not really eager to be dragged into rampant rivalry with the west or its neighbors . putting the australian mining executive behind bars for ten years , squeezing google , maintaining the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting mid-level the official wag his finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not , after all , the best approach to persuade us partners of your own constructive purposes . nor is it any reminder that china , up to this day , has been stubbornly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and courting western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism .
yet the us has succeeded in ameliorating it – not only normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . the international situation at that time has been no less dangerous than it is today . if this continues , europe will lose leverage in world affairs and become progressively more irrelevant . the us , however , has succeeded in ameliorating it – not only normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . this has been achieved mainly through dialogue .
and , once these firms are established and dominated by their chosen market , the new us economy allows them to pursue anti-competitive measures that deny both actual and potential rivals to challenge their positions . such factors help explain why the digital economy has given rise to major us firms , which have diminished need for labor . but confronting it will require the us to reinvent antitrust to the digital age . this heightened market concentration is a widening gap between firms owned by robots ( capital ) and those charged with replacing robots ( labor ) . and , as economists david autor , david dorn , christina patterson , and john van reenen show , america ’s industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income .
just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi has been brought down not by political opponents , but by jittery investors , italy has been the markets , not european leaders , that have opened the door to european fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration , either . do we owe it to europe ’s wisdom ’s political leaders , particularly that of france , “ merkozy ” couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? unfortunately , not : progress has come almost exclusively from much-maligned financial markets . and whom must we thank for all of europe ’s progress ?
forecasts for us economic growth have been revised downward markedly since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the global nature of the problem that the us is facing . indeed , that pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply been shifted between industries and countries . demand continues to be depressed by the debt-accumulated debt overhang prior to the 2008 crisis . and if multiple currencies all depreciate against america ’s dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing industries could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , thereby harming the word as us exporters .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken the transatlantic alliance , which has long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” with trump , the world is becoming accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals . the united states , its position suggests , would be much more than fine . the united states , its position suggests , would be more than fine .
russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a wide range of major high-technology industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail networks , petrochemicals , and heavy appliances on mining and hydrocarbon industries . all of these industries will benefit from tremendous demand growth in big markets , such as china , africa , and india . all of these industries will benefit from tremendous demand growth in big markets , such as china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term growth , led by high tech industries , requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign actors . moreover , the social and political landscape must become conducive to a high tech power generation , providing an attractive quality of life , safeguarding civil liberties , and promoting entrepreneurship and creativity .
the return to public investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms that vary from country to country . and there is some potential for abuses , with expenditures being misclassified as investment . in reality , the proper form of public investment would most likely spur more private-sector investment . to be sure , the situation is not cut off and run dry . yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which implies that little crowding out private-sector risk ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment .
in germany , german chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is respected or resented for her policies of austerity , rather than for her gender . a central issue in such tv programs is not that the main roles play by women . character , not gender , is driving the narrative . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is under assault for mismanaging the economy , and america ’s banking interests in forcing debt restructurings on her or her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman . outside the united states , women have already reached the highest levels of power .
with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed might not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until 2015 . the fed warns that it might raise the federal funds rate if the anticipated annual inflation rate rises from a little less than 2 % to over 2.5 % . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous , and thus uninformative . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising the fed ’s governors and regional federal reserve board presidents , has agreed that the federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level until after an unemployment rate fell to 6.5 % , and may be expected to remain there , too . with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed might not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until 2015 .
russia , prokhorov concludes , is a “ feudal society , ” with putin ’s political grip on political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbated the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that plagues many oil-exporting countries . during the past two decades , social inequality has grown threefold . and , with housing , health care , and education less accessible now than it was in the late 1980 ’s , his policy agenda is focused on what should be done to improve russia ’s ’s ’s human capital , a key problem holding back russia ’s ’s ’s economy . indeed , two million educated professionals recently emigrated from russia . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is just 6-10 % of that in america , both to the economy ’s struggles even when oil prices , its main exports , are peaking .
meanwhile , a major effort must begin to assuage iran ’s fears of its neighbors , several of them will be tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s potential breakaway region of 15 years by pursuing its nuclear programs . the world erred in allowing north korea to pass its nuclear-weapons threshold ; this , too , is not precluded by the accord . the world erred in allowing north korea to pass its nuclear-weapons threshold ; this , too , is not precluded by the accord . iran should likewise be told that the us and its nato allies would commit a preventive military strike should it appear to be attempting to present the world with a fait accompli . it is important that the united states ( ideally , joined by other nato countries ) let iran know that any action to place itself on its nuclear brinkmanship after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by hamas .
for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election only because trump has pledged to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . that , in turn , will spur near-term economic growth , and will inevitably push interest rates further upward . longer-term trends in how us money is being used internationally – mainly as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling . short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge a currency ’s underlying strength . under the years ahead , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s ’s election will almost certainly turn out to be bad for greece .
as home secretary , she often won battles against other eu ministers simply by refusing to express her views , or even to appear at meetings until minutes ahead of her last-minute decisions had to be made . throughout her political career , she may have used procrastination as her winning strategy . but that happy outlook for may to rests on one critical premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . europe ’s leaders might easily neutralize may ’s threat to a no-deal brexit , and thus remove any need to offer the concessions she demands . to do that , they need to understand the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and delay .
finally , service-sector productivity amounts to just 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , compared to the oecd average of more than 90 % . the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to an escalating north korean nuclear threat . and it ranks 58th for the institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability . in recent months , north korea has launched several intercontinental missiles and conducting nuclear tests , spurring the exchange of incendiary rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
it is not sustainable for the people of smolensk oblast to live under constitutional democracy , whereas the citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the victims of wanton shelling and destruction . the political and military elements that lament the soviet state ’s demise devoted to expanding russian influence in the non-russian republics . thus , if russia continues along its imperialist lines , its democracy will be at risk . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in the us , show that , as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to the colonial subjects of members , or specific groups . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and chechnya reinforces the reactionary forces opposing liberal democracy .
from the japanese perspective , there has been a `` account of victimization , '' in which `` atomic '' bombs became the symbol of a particular kind of suffering -- rather comparable to the holocaust for jews . at the hiroshima museum itself , the victim 's role has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . neither the japanese government 's responsibility to - and continue its war , nor the inhumane treatment that war 's prisoners or civilian populations have suffered under japanese rule , are adequately acknowledged . neither the japanese government 's responsibility to initiating and persecute the war , nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war or the subject suffered under japanese rule , is adequately acknowledged . at the hiroshima museum itself , the victim 's role has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory .
accountability mechanisms should be established , enabling victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . the framework also should include the requirement of non-discrimination , ensuring that we target our attention to the most vulnerable groups – not only well-connected , literate , and favorites of the regime , rather than only groups to whom quick wins can be reached . this removes the stigma on charities and empowering victims . the intended beneficiaries of such actions should be defined as rights-oriented holders . rather than aid , because they have unsatisfied needs , they are granted remedies , owing to their rights violations .
the chinese are doing this in two ways . first , us firms that want to do business in china are obligated to have a chinese partner and to share their technologies with that firm . the most important problem that needs to be addressed is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese are stealing american firms ’ us-based firms and using it to help chinese firms compete against those same firms in china and around the world . this resharing of technology is explicitly forbidden by the world trade organization ’s rules .
though the newest country has emerged from a bitter civil war among christians and muslims , an independence referendum has received 99 % of its support . still , today , 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted that has nothing to do with islam , and everything to do with the struggle along ethnic lines for control over the country ’s resources . yet the struggle within islam is neither a satisfactory nor a sufficient explanation for the status quo of anarchy that we see in a region like south sudan , whose 11 million people have regained their independence just over three years ago . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . it ripping countries and regions together , lingered people to travel halfway around the world to join jihad , threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews , and others .
in the us , america ’s troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) – which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 – began as a program whereby the us department of the treasury ’s troubled asset relief program purchased , largely mortgage-based assets directly from financial institutions . with that one unilateral decision , iran destabilized the rest of europe . but that proved to be more complicated than was originally thought , and , in weeks , the government simply recapitalized american banks in the eu . hoping to avert a run on the bank , the irish government offered a blanket guarantee for all banking deposits . other bad decisions were not so easily reversed .
hate speech and other forms of dangerous and illegal content must be attacked . on the contrary , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models that facilitate and even reward hate speech . on one hand , there is a need for increased media literacy across the consumer , which needs to be taught , from a young age , about the real-world consequences of an online hate speech . on the other side of the – and this – what netzdg attempts to ensure – social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that spur responsible use . but this is no quick fix at all .
and , more precisely , should british legislators view themselves as bound by the outcome of the june 23 referendum ? on the widely discussed question , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the vision of democracy itself , subject only to feasibility constraints . in earlier times , the small city-states could become direct democracies ; but in larger countries where communication was sluggish , it was forced to elect representatives to determine the many questions that must be debated and voted to govern . first , to what extent should the citizens of a democracy be allowed to make decisions directly , say , in a referendum , rather than via their elected representatives ? independently of what one thinks of britain exiting the eu , one general and one specific to brexit can ask .
what encryption supporters recognize is that “ if american companies retain the capacity to unlock their customers ’ data and devices on request , governments other than the united states will demand the same access , and they will also be emboldened to demand an equal capability made by their native companies . ” america ’s government will be unable to object , given its own policies . a grand coalition of technology companies and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to us president barack obama arguing against backdoors . in addition to “ undermining ” every american ’s own cyber security and the nation ’s economic security , ” signers have argued , “ introducing new vulnerabilities to weaken america ’s encrypted products would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe . ” they regard a backdoor request by a automobile manufacturer like the us request to a flawed engine .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those preceding it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems . kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , headed by prime minister mahathir mohamad – suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal following the online circulation of sex videos involving a cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice leading to the incarceration of people ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim .
at a time of much hand-wringing over the decline of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . at the same time , macron has signaled his intention to pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament election . at a time of much hand-wringing over the decline of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . like a democrat , he believes that europe ’s deepening influence must go hand in hand with advancing europe ’s truly european political space . but is politics really turning the page on the traditional right-left cleavage ?
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s ’s nuclear saber rattling is a continuing combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ” in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ” that outcome – which would sharply shift east asian ’s strategic rebalancing in china ’s favor – is not as unlikely as most people seem to think . fewer , however , recognize that the least bad military option – one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china assume responsibility for its rogue neighbor – is a chinese incursion , or regime change forced through china ’s ’s threat to launch one .
“ ever since the world economic forum began debating personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , ” she told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the idea that personal data might be the ‘ new oil ’ of the digital economy as well as – so far – so seems to be true of policy . ” spiekermann , a global authority to trafficking our online identities for purposes targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes emphasizing the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “’ data-management platforms , ” such as those operated by acxiom , or oracle bluekai , possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles about hundreds of millions of users ’ lives . as a result , “ “ over 1,000 ” companies are now engaged in the digital information value chain , which harvests data from any online activity and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users , within roughly 36 seconds of their entry to the digital realm . likewise , nor is it – just facebook and google , apple , or amazon – using our data for whatever purpose might think one might think of , ” ” ” ” spiekermann
given constraints on inter-sectoral labor mobility , stemming from skill acquisition barriers and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such changes occur . but increased trade may also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and lower agricultural prices – outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustments in the short run . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers face increased foreign competition . it gives poor access to a wider variety of commodities , while giving firms more diversified selection of inputs .
for kenya , the nation ’s very public decline has come at a heavy cost . but it has also proven that press freedom means far more than allowing journalists to say what they want when they want , and how they want them to do so . and yet , just when a country ’s ’s ’s ’s democratic institutions might most benefit from such a mirror , those who historically held it now believe that they have no alternative but to set it down . kenyans need a similar pattern of reflection today . at the same time , it means holding media owners accountable .
merely lowering interest rates did not , and will not , induce firms to invest more in these sectors . the first is now ending ; second -- the result of over-the-counter overinvestment in high tech and telecoms , the industries that were so important during the boom years -- may last very much longer . the us recession of 2001 combined an investment slump with an investment slump . the good news -- and the bad ones -- is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is fast enough that much of the gears may become obsolete well before they are worn out , or even used , to allow new investment to start faster than they otherwise would . a substantial capacity overhang remains -- for example , fiber optic lines that remain dark , see any light pass yet .
two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . once the eu ’s bureaucracy and the broad parameters for negotiation are established by early next year , may formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty . that , to say the least , is the formal plan . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like the rats in sack , will have to come up with a package . by then , the next general election will not be far off , giving a second stamp of approval for brexit .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , west berlin , london , and rome , the arab spring of 1968 were marked by student protests against the vietnam war . young poles took to the streets of warsaw , not to chanting “ ho , ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with viet cong , but rather to defend their own countries ’ freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . these are just a handful of differences between west and eastern european students in that springtime of revolt of forty years ago . in warsaw , too , students were protesting , but their cause was not so much the same as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chanting “ ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with the viet cong , but rather to defend their own country ’s freedom and culture against smothering of communist rule .
preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies will illuminate political debates and likely annoy ideologues of both the right and the left . consider the gini coefficient , the most widely shared measure of inequality , which runs from zero value of perfect equality to 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . consider the gini coefficient , the most widely shared measure of inequality , which runs from zero value for perfect equality to 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . crucially , figures are comparable across a large set of middle ages – and low-income countries , as well as those that are available for the advanced countries as well . beginning , lustig argues in a recent paper with the failure of world income inequality .
as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain a decent growth rate of around 7 % annually , while pressing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can count on short-term stimulus to meet their growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation and structural vulnerability . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity . the final piece of the puzzle for china is realism . likewise , while policies that encourage firms to raise wages will lift household income and domestic consumption , wage hikes may erode export competitiveness and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment .
it is worth remembering that to join the eu , hungary had to comply with stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . and , by closing such a prominent us-supported institution , it can send a message that no one standing up for it has won . yet orbán is doing so within the eu in 2017 . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically eroded has introduced a paradox for the eu . despots throughout history have employed the same tactics as this .
soros : i have been debating this in 2000 , in my book the crisis of global capitalism . so long as it behaves within its powers , germany has no position to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something genuinely substantial might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . question : are you thinking that the current economic crisis is perhaps the final step in the west ’s general philosophical crisis ? soros : the ecb is a functioning institution .
in fact , since sweden enacted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of productivity growth has risen by a factor of four . by moving away from a city-state system of universal eligibility to one that identifies a more appropriate fit for all first-graduate students , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and increased social mobility . moreover , it is not as if a flat tax on capital gains will impede social-welfare mobility or increase poverty . macron ’s ’s revolution is on the move , and he will be the most likely to follow suit . social mobility in france has not experienced any major change since 1991 .
reforming brazil ’s relationship with the public and private sector may improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . but , while many observers have focused on scandals stemming from short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . reforming brazil ’s relationship with the public and private sector may improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . beyond individual firms , entire value chains that contribute heavily to the country ’s gdp have suffered from a sudden operation and a financial freeze . there is now widespread perception that those participating in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being captured and punished , regardless of their socioeconomic status .
as the union races ahead , so far it appears that it has lost europe ’s citizens along the way . they have trouble seeing what is common to europe . they have trouble seeing what is common to europe . even within the new member states , enthusiasm for a european family of democracies is cooling . they have trouble seeing what is common to europe .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversation with russia ’s ambassador during the transition ( presumably to lifting the sanctions imposed by us president barack obama on russian businesses ) . trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations initiated by or handed over to the federal and state prosecutors outside of washington . another prominent escapee from the special counsel ’s hammer has been trump ’s ’s ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have exploited his white house role , particularly on foreign policy ( in which he had no experience ) , to attend to his family ’s need to pay off enormous real-estate debt . these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with the us ambassador to russia during the transition ( presumably to lifting the sanctions that us president barack obama had imposed on russian businesses ) . moreover , hillary clinton ’s son , donald trump , jr. , together with other top campaign officials , met in trump tower with links to the kremlin who had promised “ dirt ” on clinton .
when the baltic states go in this direction , america simply ignores electoral results ( as it did in 2006 , when hamas won a sizable majority of its popular vote in gaza ) . backroom dealings and violence continue to govern the day . the us can not stop at a downward spiral of violence across the middle east . in fact , america ’s and its allies simply do not like the results of arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . pundits argue that the arabs can not manage democracy .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world is rousing itself against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa and south-asia . in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of adults are afflicted with children . while first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million more people suffer from it in africa ; six million more live in asia . the pandemic claimed 19 million lives , producing 13 million orphans . in parts of south africa , 34 million more people live with an hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked for early deaths .
as a result , the skies are usually conceptualized . oceans belong to all but those close to landmasses that are managed in a similar way to poland ’s land-locked borders . airliners and fighter planes operate in “ controlled ” air close to the ground , while their nationality is meant to matter less than the higher you go . in most cases , laws governing the skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . the fragile treaties covering this are mostly enforced by the simple fact that few nations can afford to place the assets that are high .
the digital age has introduced new uncertainties , which hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors are already routinely exploiting . and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the beginning of the digital age and the end of the industrial age altogether . in fact , few other trends pose a bigger threat to global stability . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of all . ” nearly all societies have become heavily reliant on the internet , the world ’s most important piece of infrastructure , and its infrastructure , upon which all other infrastructure depends .
in china , most soes have survived because central planners have emphasized economic autarky , regardless of cost . wto membership will also compel governments to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against capital-intensive economic sectors , including agriculture . china ’s pre-reform strategy has rejected the idea of a “ comparative advantage ” – a principle that the economy produces some goods more effectively than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and the climate . the same wto-induced sectoral adjustment underlies the decline in steel and textiles in advanced countries like the us . jamaica , say , produces neither frozen salmon nor hockey players , because investment in industries like citrus and tourism delivers far more certain gains .
whereas the league party promises to cut taxes , the populist five star movement ( m5s ) is pursuing a form of basic income . still , the mainstream political parties that have governed italy until this year have failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . as a result , italians have been elected an unconventional coalition , whose agenda combines the populist policies of the populist left with those of the populist right . there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation , and high debt . while the league party promises to cut taxes , the five star movement ( m5s ) is pursuing a form of basic income .
an effective strategy needs to accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional areas ; and pot out of projects and investment that fail . learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing is a key challenge to economic development . for this , governments need to deploy both the carrot and the stick . the carrot is required because there is great social value in discovering , for example , that cut flowers or soccer balls , or that computer software can be produced at low cost , because this knowledge can orient investment by other entrepreneurs . encouraging foreign investment , or liberalizing all , and then waiting for things to make improvements does not work .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the effect of a cyclical rebound effect – an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real gdp – would generate real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , well above the decade ending in 2009 . the effect of the us dollar ’s decline over the coming decade could be equally significant . but not all of the extra output produced over the coming decade will remain in the us . if the us trade deficit shrinks to 25 % of gdp in the coming decade , an implied increase in us exports and declining imports would reduce the output available for american consumption and investment by about 0.3 percentage points annually . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls over the coming decade , the implied rise in us exports and imports decline would lower output available for american consumption and investment by about 0.3 % annually .
the american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its commitments to holdout bondholders on the same share ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of foreign-exchange bonds . as a result , argentina either had to pay holdouts in full or default on their new bonds . holdouts argued that if the new bonds were to be serviced at full ( as they are ) , equal treatment demanded that holdouts receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) . as a result , argentina either must pay holdouts fully or default on their new bonds . it is this ruling that the supreme court recently upheld .
this matters , because a new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding global dominance . china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to construct a sprawling complex roughly the magnitude of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo – a “ harbor city ” that will become a major stop on china ’s nautical-“ road ” course . but china is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry . india certainly seems to be highly suspicious of china ’s behavior . zhou bo , a honorary fellow with the pla academy of military sciences , admits that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a powerful “ yet benign ” power .
the modi government has also enacted a upa-proposed goods and services tax that has stalled under bjp-ruled opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s own gujarat ) . and it will intensify the domestic anti-terror effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . yet sharif has been a honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s ’s ’s newly affable leader . many modi ’s media supporters have already started to decry a number of policy abdications since his campaign . india ’s citizens , who thought they voted for change , are starting to wonder whether the bjp has simply reprised the upa government ’s policy .
we should look to the helsinki process to demonstrate how to retrieve what has been lost . in all conflicts , human rights are among the first casualties ; indeed , in the middle east , the degradation of human dignity now has undone international conventions , agreed over a number of generations . a regional agenda needs to be crafted to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy comprising energy and water policies , arms control , and debt reduction . with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military affairs , combined with the charter of stability , has become urgent . europe ’s ’s contribution to the middle east has been great .
when the oecd proposed an agreement to limit bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . when the oecd proposed an agreement to restrict bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . for example , when the imf rightly suggested , in the wake of argentina ’s crisis , that there needed to be a smoother path of debt restructuring ( an international policy of bankruptcy ) , america vetoed the initiative . they did what they could be intended to ensure that no meaningful reform appeared during the crisis , with the knowledge that the post-crisis momentum for reform would dissipate . who , after all , might have predicted that bill clinton would follow america ’s president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestation ?
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong citizens assembled in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protestors in beijing ’s tiananmen square . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom ’s return to hong kong ’s handover to china 20 years ago . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom ’s return to hong kong ’s handover to china 20 years ago . and , to attendees , hong kong ’s demonstration has reflected growing frustration , affecting not only china ’s leaders , but also its own . nonetheless , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s governance .
and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also needs to be an effective diagnosis of the situation that a group faces . to select the goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not only solicit donations from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices . what plays well with a single set of group might not sit well with the next one . leaders need to get the question right before proposing answers . leaders need to get the question right before proposing answers .
but , by making matters worse , the business and investment climate take their toll mainly on the private sector . sixth , sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments . finally , sanctions are supposedly effective in containing nuclear proliferation . here , too , too , their record is demonstrably poor . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control supplies of strategic commodities , given the shortages they cause .
internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , market economics , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union appeared to be logical . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , market economics , and protection from the return of the russian empire . nothing of the sort applies to the crisis countries of the middle east . central and eastern europe after 1989 , although a very intriguing reference point for the analysts of the arab revolutions , is not an adequate benchmark point , because the region ’s new domestic and foreign order has resulted from a change in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power .
after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , america ’s federal reserve has started its long march back toward normalization . most financial-market participants , for their part , applaud this strategy . it has now taken the first step toward reversing its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate – to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint to america ’s economy . in fact , it is a dangerous mistake to do so . the new haven by now is an all-too-familiar drill .
de gregorio ’s views vary from that of many of his peers in other countries , for he sees clearly the risks in letting the banks become bigger and apply what he calls a shrewd ” strategy that calls a lot of leverage . the danger for central banks stems from the failure to measure the implicit subsidies that they provide to major financial institutions is not measured in any budget . moreover , the build-up of risk in the financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a couple of years ( for example , following a governor ’s tenure at the end of his term ) . by holding out to banks and other private-sector firms at sub-national levels , vulnerability to shocks is diminishing . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least for fiscal balances when an implicit guarantee has to be honored .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny of what russian president vladimir putin is up to syria and why . as bad as the assad government is , and as it must respond to it , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse . russian bombs and missiles are now raining on the array of armed groups that have been fighting syrian government forces , giving the regime the breathing space that russia ’s intervention was intended to provide . what we do know is that putin has decided to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . much of the analysis , though narrowly focused on the short run , may prove too negative in assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences .
every blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy , with a solid black line showing the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . that may be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trade framework . using data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( a log of which ranks on the vertical axis below ) tends to decline as income levels rise ( shown by log value on the horizontal axis ) . that might be because richer countries observe rules better , are less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise or some combination . the data pattern of data is pretty clear : as a country becomes richer , there are fewer anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it .
if the brexit trajectory turned out to turn out , it will be a good illustration of the double character of the eu and function – of politics itself . most bets are on britain formally exit the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft ” exit , but it will probably suffice to ensure parliamentary approval . john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ “ “ “ “ words ” ought to be somewhat savage , ” because they are the assault of unthinking , ” ” he wrote in 1933 . the referendum ’s decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic effects are set aside : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology .
europeans and americans , israelis , and iranians , egyptians and turks , egyptians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the novelty of this year was the presence of representatives from post-saddam iraq , among them an official from a kurdish regional government , as well as a high ranking shi'a representative . the new situations in iraq , coupled with the middle east road map , have been at the center of attention . the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : the former royal castle in the taunus region ’s rolling hills near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians hosted an annual meeting that addresses the middle east . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east road map , has been at the center of attention .
observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including brief sermon ) , social interactions , qiyyam ( another late-night prague ) , suhur ( another collective food ) , suhur ( another collective food ) , suhur ( pdds ) , suhur ( another collective food ) , and then mornings . after the sunset community , a common program exists . the past ten days of ramadan are i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open spaces . and ramadan – which is now underway – is mobilization-friendly . last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite an almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets .
as africa ’s preeminent fund , the african development bank will support our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthening social safety nets , and laying the foundations for robust economic recovery . no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based , broad-based economic growth without pulling along all segments of its population and giving voice to everyone . as we finance infrastructure and other regional projects , we will seek to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas . we are broadening our consultation with governments and other actors ; we are collaborating more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and media coverage , as with academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industry and industry associations . with the emerging democratic dispensation , we have partners with whom we can engage with governance issues .
the rising need for action to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a winning formula ? ” though the numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to think , they have been diverted from the shaky foundations of newfound prosperity . even many of the world ’s poorest countries initially appeared to join in posting strong growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and rising fiscal revenues . the contraction of assets and stock markets will no doubt dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . the rest of the world ’s fate hinges on responses to the unfolding financial turmoil .
owing to its expanding middle class , the region is likely to account for about half of the global rise in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three quarters of the surge in fish consumption between now and 2030 . and , by then , more than 60 % of global total cereal demand in the developing world is likely to come from the south and east asia . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , with by 2050 its working-age population expected to grow to around five billion – an increase of more than 900 million people . but , as the region ’s struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could become a painful reality of life . manila – the food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia .
this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage with each problem . but , whether america is engaged or not , the us needs a policy . what america needs is a better way to explain to its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east ’s mounting problems . syria is a case in point . its situation , predicted by every pundit around , has metastasized , threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . with attackers becoming increasingly agile and innovative , armed with an increasingly varied array of weapons , cyber-attacks occur at a faster pace and with greater sophistication than ever before . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . the question , then , is how to achieve this end . everybody , from households to firms to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s ’s most precious commodity : data .
viewed from the perspective of such truths , europe ’s eastward enlargement , for example , is highly desirable not despite but because it may lead to migration from the new member states to the old one . this is not the only way forward ; it is not the only way forward . integrating migrants makes a great deal sense ; it is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in troubled countries with the assistance of a generation of emigrants who first transfer resources and then go back themselves . many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least the more rational debate . many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least the more rational debate .
the costs are minuscule : reaching an estimated 80 % of the world ’s 140 million , or so undernourished children , would demand a commitment of about $ 60 million annually , while economic gains would ultimately amount to a clear $ 1 billion per year . providing iron and iodized salty is another high-tech measure of investment . for $ 286 million , we could get iodized salty and enriched basic food items to 80 % of those in the worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that sum . by providing iron and iodized salty , we know that iron deficiency leads to cognitive and developmental challenges . fortifying iron-fisted products as little as $ 0.12 per person per year .
standardization and liberalization in european telecoms have underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity over this period , compared to america ’s 6 % growth . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – may become viable with action by policymakers . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – may become viable with action by policymakers . the largest scope for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive industries , where governments have a major presence as a regulator . many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over several decades , which implies that weak short-term demand will have only limited effects on their overall viability .
the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low as it is today . indeed , after averaging three percentage points over two decades , and has risen to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential has fallen to 2.5 last year , and is expected to amount to just 1.5 this year . those who believe that it will typically rely on three arguments , all of which require some skill sets . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low as it is today . as a result , the pace of growth in emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , alongside hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan – has been severely diminished .
these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-largely incomplete balance-sheet fixes on a part of corporations and banks . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity implies that europe ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . under recent eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risk sharing should be liable to replace the common liability principle , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when a crisis erupts . in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards introduced high levels of moral hazard and produced perverse incentives for governments and market participants alike . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all those advocating risk-sharing .
creating a new eurasia union was an essential part of his platform . then , in may 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failure brought yanukovych into power through free and fair elections , and in 2012 , putin chose himself for a third consecutive presidential term in russia . the hoped-for break with the past did not occur because political infighting among poland ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . likewise , 2004 was a bitter setback for russian president vladimir putin , who had attempted to rally his favored presidential nominee , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by fueling massive vote manipulation . the hoped-for brexit did not come at all , because political infighting among poland ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda .
if history repeats itself , it is now time for the third “ sudden stop ” of capital flows to emerging markets . are several data points and biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle ’s hypothesis seriously ? the third cycle of inflows occurred in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . following the east asia crisis of 1997 , following the east asia crisis of seven years of capital droughts . perhaps , with some sort of causal theory , we have been able to explain such periodicity to international capital flows .
jefferson and madison did not want the country ’s capital to go to the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to encourage the move to move it toward an area carved out of virginia or maryland . a responsible fiscal state emerged out of this grand compromise . despite the enormous cost – over half of the fledgling government ’s ’s expenditures in early years – over the course of the early years , the us economy shook off the 1780 ’s depression and entered a growth boom . in turn , they would secure the federal government ’s votes to assume and repay states ’ defaulted debts . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than ours is today .
at the same time , digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and governments alike . digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and governments alike . digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and governments alike . at the same time , they can spur development , by enabling digital talent matching and streamlined employee verification , resulting in higher labor-market participation . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to lower fraud rates , cut customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and credit for under-banked customers .
the second revolution , however , that brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power – produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of treachery . if the revolution continues apace , it would disentangle incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and recurrent cycles of violence . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order to continue to deceive labor and peasant communities . the first 1917 revolution toppled czar nicholas kerensky , creating a provisional government headed by the socialist leader alexander kerensky that turned out to be a transition blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order to continue to deceive labor and peasant communities .
moreover , such a solution would safeguard the fed ’s critical monetary-policy independence . in a perfect world , one would add to the state banking regulators , but i recognize that , at this point , i have begun to trample on the cherished features of america ’s constitution ! this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to talk openly about developing the financial system as a whole , without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in its care . the crisis demonstrated by the need for this plain speaking . below it , there is an opportunity to form a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of comptroller ’s office , thrift supervision office , and regional feds ’ regulatory functions .
in india , for example , there is a fear that small mom-and-pop sellers will grind to a halt when wal-mart begins to enter the market in coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . the survival of artisanal retailers should not be used as a pretext to introduce or uphold business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent wealthy . asian policymakers need to recall how they have successfully developed their manufacturing sector through competition . the government can , say , impose zoning regulations , help for small retailers find specialized niches in the market , or provide skills training to displaced workers .
the postwar postwar system of financial regulation was established on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . first , we thought that a key reason for banks ’ failure was that depositors panicked , not that the principal reason depositors panic was that banks were at risk of default . time and again , financial crises reflected the vulnerabilities of the regulatory system founded on the lessons learned from previous crises . toulouse – if history punishes those who fail to learn from it – financial history does its punishing them with sadistic twist , too punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . today , ’s ’s crisis is neither exception nor another .
the american people ’s congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs convincing as well . for china , the greatest prize is the bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . such an agreement would be a near-term boon for xi , for it would represent america ’s trust vote in china ’s struggling economy . but the outlook for a little is uncertain , to say the best . in practical terms , a us-china nothing would make it easier for chinese entities to invest and operate in the us and enhance american firms ’ access to chinese markets .
the ipcc ’s report makes it clear that the exaggerations of that magnitude have no roots in science , although obviously frightened people , and perhaps the victory of gore , an academy awards . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how a 20-foot rise in sea levels would inundate a large part of florida , shanghai , and holland . this is particularly interesting , given that it has fundamentally rejected one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s ’s al gore movie an inconvenient truth . the report has also disclosed the improbability of yet another gore ’s scenario : that global warming may force the gulf to drop out , turn europe into a new siberia . the report also disclosed the improbability of yet another gore ’s scenario : that global warming may force the gulf stream shut down , turn europe into new siberia .
for starters , lowering import costs will boost chinese households ’ purchasing power and their access to products that can enhance their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will benefit from lower costs for foreign-made parts and equipment , reinforcing their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers may end up boosting exports . it is important to note that china can still reduce its bilateral trade surplus vis-à-vis any particular partner , even as its overall surplus with the us is rising . finally , international import expo will complement china ’s additional measures to liberalize its market , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms . and , though import expo expands , rather than decreases , a country ’s overall trade surplus may well have other benefits .
across the west , many are questioning whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means of putting economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgian , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” in this respect , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that the empire of the “ new russia dream ” should be constructed by purely economic means , excluding all forcible action from other peoples . naturally , a key role in this model applies to energy supplies to the post-soviet countries . russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet nations rests on the doctrine of a “ liberal empire ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” argues that russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should presume control over key economic entities across former soviet republics ’ territory by acquiring their own assets . the use of the “ energy weapon ” is , however , not only a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy .
cambridge – the united states congress is close to enacting major tax reform . the plan ’s most important provision lowers the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the very top 1 % among all oecd countries to one of the lowest – and allows american companies to repatriate profits from their foreign subsidiaries without incurring additional us taxes . meanwhile , i am convinced that the economic benefits stemming from corporate tax changes will outweigh the adverse effects of increased debt levels . regulatory opponents point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit to add $ 1.5 trillion to gdp over the next ten years . i dislike budget deficits , and i have long warned of their perilous effects .
to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to support some inflation , and even to correct some of the yen ’s ’s ’s ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity , prompting the bank of japan to act once again . we need a cluster of major economies , – call this “ g big ” – that announces monetary policies in coordinated fashions . such actions are typically justified as policies for boosting domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , low-grade currency war .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirms this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is a observation that , in the post-world war ii era ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth has averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , versus just 2.5 % under republican presidents . the results are similar even when one assigns responsibility for the first three months , or for the first time in quarters , of a president ’s term to his predecessor . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the mismatch is even greater . the gap in economic performance under both democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with disparities clearly above the statistical threshold .
indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , has been arrested on the ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” venezuelans would like nothing better than to be the ones determined by their own destiny , but democratic means to do so are being denied to them . terms in office have expired for prosecutor-general , members of the national electoral commission , and the supreme court justices , but no successors have been named because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials of his choosing . it is only as preposterous to tell venezuelan protesters the same thing . it would be preposterous to say that ukrainian protesters are facing government-run storm troopers to bear it without external solidarity or aid .
yet in the face of large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism will become precisely the point at stake . classical socialism is the progeny of liberal internationalism to assert that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . true , far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump . but history suggests that they have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . it is easy to see why .
determining the validity of such fears requires recognizing what drives china ’s ’s economic slowdown . at the recent g-20 finance ministers ’ annual meeting in shanghai , participants asked much of the same question , and not only with respect to medium-term expectations of weak global growth . many are now wondering whether china ’s current level of growth will be as good as it gets for some time to come . london is “ what if it ’s going on ” as good as it will be ? jack nicholson asks , how he or she will walks through her psychiatrist waiting room in an eponymous movie .
it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , because protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupy moscow – gain further cohesion . likewise , the internet disseminates the templates of what real democracy looks like instantly and globally . that agenda is at stake in direct conflict with those of global capital and governments that have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that indicate that they have little interest in being cordoned off to conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalities , or religious identities . overwhelmingly , they want simple democracy and economic self-determination .
when interest rates rise , as surely as they must , servicing the debt costs will require higher taxes , harming economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . firms now worry that rising deficits will result in higher future tax rates , further discouraging investment . but the three of europe ’s four largest economies – france , italy , and the united kingdom – have all experienced large debts and annual deficits that emphasize even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . that is a worrying prospect for everyone . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be available to fund productivity-enhancing business investment .
the fastest growing sectors of the us economy since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely categorized as “ service industries , ” ” ” ” often involving disinformation and entertainment diffusion – activities in which jews were especially prominent , ranging from publishing to vaudeville to vaudeville , and from movies to commercial sports . they have pioneered new retail institutions , from department shops to box shops . they have also tended to do disproportionately well in learned occupations – for example , medicine , law , and accounting – that are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fact that jews have long been a minority subject to discrimination has sometimes been accorded as grounds for their propensity to dedicate themselves to commerce , financial , and occupations . yet not all minorities have long been prone to market competition .
to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new holistic framework , developed by the one planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . vert-infra initially covers four subsectors of sustainable infrastructure : power , energy storage , transportation , and buildings , with a special emphasis on projects in urban areas . crowding in private capital will thus be key to closing the investment gap . until now , sustainable infrastructure has largely been financed via multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . the framework – called “ “ “ vision ” for an environmentally responsible transition ” infrastructure ( vert-infra ) – aims to help unlock project pipelines and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide .
moreover , the new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have come to the fore on the international scene . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb , and a lot of the new dynamite of cumulative integration throughout the region . without us backing from china and india , america ’s middle east policy can no longer succeed ; on the contrary , that support is offered only half-heartedly – if at all . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb and a lot of new dynamite to accumulate throughout the region . today , after the world ’s financial and economic crisis ( and , unlike in 2001 ) , america appears crucially weakened .
creative destruction ( intensified by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . true , the new us economy is tough on those who sit on its backsides and live at the expense of their stockholders or taxpayers . but this is no longer the american story , either . skeptics maintain that competition and technology wreak havoc on societies ’ harmony ; that they generate inequality and eviscerates the middle class . true , it gives a chance for energetic people formerly on the sidelines .
indeed , even the mammogram ( nearly 40 million are given annually in america ) that detects cancer do not necessarily save a life . dartmouth researchers found that from an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us , the trial did not help 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . cancers either grew so slowly that they posed no problem or would receive treatment successfully if detected clinically later ( or were so aggressive that little was possible ) . the next step in the reevaluation of cancer screening last year occurred when researchers at the dartmouth institute for medical policy announced that breast cancer screening costs were often minimized , and that the benefits had been considerably exaggerated . chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer received a similar , if less definitive , critique .
fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this growth engine : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for an additional $ 215 million to women worldwide worldwide – a large share in africa that wants to avoid pregnancy costs around $ 3.6 trillion annually . this matters , because a rising population may become an even bigger problem than was previously thought . a new study argues that there is now a 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , and an 80 % chance that it will reach the 9.6-12.3 billion of people by 2100 . sub-saharan africa is persistently the world ’s poorest region , which will be the leading demographic engine .
the fundamental problem in iraq is not one of jobs , but of the world as a whole . in contrast to the mexican , chinese , or the russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not fueling the current conflict . at the same time , state-owned firms should be free to offer , but instead receiving little favors . this is a struggle for power , not for economic justice and a better life . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal .
on the contrary , mccain wants to sanction russia by actions like expelling it from the g-8 . this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , mccain seems not to recognize this . on russia since his invasion of georgia , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of the us congress to visit georgian after his invasion ) , emphasizing helping georgian reconstruction and maintaining its independence in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . moreover , even after outrage in georgia , there are issues of common interest – for example , energy , climate change , and iran – upon which the west and the kremlin must cooperate . such actions may ultimately be necessary , but they wo n’t help georgian survive as an independent democracy .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into chaos , decimating the central-government authority . the southern region ( aden ) and the east ( turkey ) are both on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward yet another secession struggle , almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile reunification . meanwhile , in yemen , the possibility of an adequate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts several seemingly intractable problems , from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a failing economy . the central authority is gradually eroding as the country continues to splinter into ethnic and sectarian regions , with a de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . the southern region ( aden ) and the east ( turkey ) are both on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward yet another secession struggle , almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile reunification .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a broad consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and spur economic growth . this proved to be a grave mistake , at least for the first time . many were instructed to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with counter-cyclical policies . but that consensus proved short-lived , and soon the public sector ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the root causes of the crisis and , therefore , to reverse them . in europe , especially , governments were lambasted for their high debts , even when private debt , not public borrowing , caused the collapse .
this means welcoming of migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and people with disabilities , and empowering citizens through education and participation . likewise , the goal of a socialist international is a world governed not by free markets , but by free people . in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead , we are undertaking far-reaching reforms in this direction . we need to fight exclusion from our political parties , just as we struggle to exclude them in our own societies . empowering citizens means giving them the power to decide well .
in contrast to europe , the united states emerges as the developed world ’s strongest economy . the us banking and household industries have made some progress in deleveraging . the us banking sector and the household sector have made some progress in deleveraging . in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . quantitative easing has boosted asset values .
even as the chinese had felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many have also come to admire america for its own brand of democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to assist . nothing has been more thuggish to china ’s new nationalists than to imagine a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . this divided attitude has meant that china has tended to overreact in ways that were impassioned and unpredictable , particularly when its pride has been piqued . nothing has been more thuggish to china ’s new nationalists than to the notion of a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . yet , by the mid o’70s , when i first went to china during the cultural revolution , hardly any public surface was emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ”
third , we face a steeply rising price for fossil-fuel use , as developing countries ’ growth drives demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas are depleted . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution has plenty of hype – akin to the golden dawn and the stock bubbles of the past . shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional fields do . to be sure , we can identify more fossil-fuel resources , but at a far higher cost and at a far greater level of environmental risk from industrial spills , waste of products , leaks , and other damage . shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional fields do .
london – the united kingdom ’s brexit general election is a bit more than a month away , but already a campaign appears to have been with the us forever , rolling implacably ahead , but with little evidence of any genuine excitement – or even an important move at the polls . perhaps they are right ; they deserve to be it . meanwhile , labour appears to be hoping for a who-knows-what to turn the tide , while keeping their collective fingers crossed , that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatening to sweep the board . support for the two main contenders – the labour party and the ruling conservative party – seems stuck in the low to-mid 30s . perhaps the conservatives are hoping that a government run on the economy will persuade undecided voters to crack in its favor late in the campaign .
recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for many decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously . is this really an american tradition of not interested in what happens to others ? recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thoughts devise , ex post , compelling rationales for many decisions that our brains typically make unconsciously . for example , former us president george w. bush may decide to invade iraq to topple saddam hussein for a variety of reasons : strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even competition with his father . most of these were not involved in the weapons of mass destruction ; nor were they involving the weapons of mass destruction .
but this makes implementation of open trade policies all the more critical , because they are the best instruments available to compensate for the malign cards that nature sometimes addresses . after all , fiscal restraint as reflected in weak government consumption relative to income growth is important as well . other factors besides trade policy also matter . after all , fiscal restraint as reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth is important . geographic location is also important because , as matters like distance from markets , bad climates and poor soils impede economic growth in developing countries .
durham , north carolina – my day begins a cup of coffee and an end to a hot chocolate plant . in short , my life – like everyone – is enabled , highly enriched , and prolonged by a wide diversity of plants and their derivatives businesses . but the biodiversity on which all of us depend is under threat is being under threat , owing to human activity devastates ’ forests and other plant-rich habitats . in short , my life – like everyone – has been enabled , enriched , and extended through a wide diversity of plants and their derivatives sites . a brightly colorful orchid enlivens my study , and , via a window , i hunt for my green garden .
the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts on israel to suspend settlement activities in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then gather even more power to expand onto more palestinian lands , build more exclusively jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes before so-called “ freeze ” comes into effect . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke while that is what happens . ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze – is just the latest round in a cycle that has echoed so many times over the last 40 years that it would appear mundane had it not been as dangerous . in the end , world subsides , and a freeze can not materialize .
after 100 years , the price tag would be a whopping $ 724 . the concept of “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 50 , or even 100 , years from now . by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that $ 100 can buy today will cost $ 122 by the end of the decade . so how is it that policymakers have managed to substitute the latter ? san francisco , there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to maintain “ stable prices ” – as enunciated in the us federal reserve ’s act and the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation .
many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates toward the weakest groups of migrants ; it leads to a brain drain from the countries in need of highly skilled workers . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether newcomers are desperate for a job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited time ) , or ostracized at all . but , again , one needs to examine the underlying trade-off . skills-biased immigration sets rise to a similar dilemma . as liberal myself , i share those values , but recognize that insisting on them as a policy matter ultimately undermines migrants ’ interests .
we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when a public is apathetic or frightened , but also when there is no seeming advanced watchman , such as the powerful political party that elects leaders and control . as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which the presidential election is the only political question . instead , the reforms were decreed from high above , without having any grassroots support and so far with no enduring durability . such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . all we had been direct appeals to the street and the masses , rather than encouragement of a genuine social consensus .
to be sure , the youth-unemployment ratio ratio of 13 % , or 19 % , does not qualify for complacency . but , whereas europe ’s youth-unemployment ratio has risen since 2009 , its ratio has remained the same ( albeit significantly above pre-2008 levels ) . likewise , greece ’s ’s ’s ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio stands at just 13 % . during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s ’s ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate has appeared to compare unfavorably with rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , sweden , and germany . and the 20.8 % eurozone-wide rate far exceeds its 8.7 % .
reserve status for the sdr is long-held imf ambition , even though the idea has never gained much traction . but there is a third possibility : global demand for america ’s reserve asset may subside . in such a scenario , a reserve asset supply would align with the world ’s fast-rising regions . alternatively , china might well end up becoming a new reserve supplier . that connectivity could go straight if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or an indirect , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights ( sdrs ) becomes favored by reserve managers as the renminbi is now within the sdr currency basket .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including a cut in the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and boost military spending , and america seems likely to face rapidly rising fiscal deficits and massive short-term increases in demand . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which the us remains an export market for the american people . but it is the peripheral countries that are likely to benefit the most . with america ’s economy already operating at close to full capacity ( with an unemployment rate of less than 5 % ) , higher imports – and a stronger american dollar – will be needed to meet that demand .
princeton – for the past century , the economic-policy debate has been locked in orbit around respective roles and the virtues of the state and the market . this old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . does market control over the state , in the sense that it sets limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ? this old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially necessary functions – for example , fighting wars or maintaining full employment ?
the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s domestic political economy . british negotiators will then react to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory logic by attempting to make the process as painful for the rest of the eu . this implies that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own self-fulfilling prophecy . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off in the eu , and that brexit will hurt europeans far more than it hurts britons . britain can not simply start defeating the europeans on their own play by revitalizing its auto industry or making its own wine to rival french and italian manufacturers .
when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic spending may rebound , but the saving rate may not and should not return to zero . otherwise , the domestic demand shortfall would reassert itself once the stimulus ended . the excessively domestic demand that has underpinned this evolution is now gone , permanently . fiscal stimulus in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts might help to tide the economy over while structural adjustment and expansion of competitiveness in the tradable sector continue . but , on its own , stimulus is not the answer .
the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran underlines not only mr. putin ’s celebrated pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroiteness of his policies . so america ’s objective of regime change in baghdad does not look too wrong , even if it can not be publicly supported . if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from a narrow perspective on russia ’s interests , whereas the resulting turmoil will be a problem for america ’s america and its traditional allies , rather than for those of russia . for president putin , this makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later in order to benefit from his helpful silence in the form of american influence over america ’s successor to the iraqi regime concerning repayment of russia ’s debts . this contrast also reflects a crucial distinction between iran , the historic nation state , and the artificial creation that constitutes iraq .
no matter how much milosevic has exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians have been genuinely popular among serbs . indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . president kostunica ’s refusal , so far , to discuss putting an internationally indicted trial criminals is not a hopeful serbs here . most of the kosovars will find speaking to serbia about improved relations if serbia is not undergoing some sort of “ de-nazification ” process . kosovo ’s skepticism toward serbia ’s democratic credentials derives , first and foremost , from the perception that conflict between kosovo and serbia is a structural rather than one based on the serbs .
after all , the economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – just like another suspects – lamin fhima , who was later acquitted – to oppose the scottish tribunal at camp david zeist in holland . in the end , the economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – just like another suspects , the fhima , who was later acquitted – to face a scottish tribunal at camp zeist in holland . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hopes for a warmer embrace by western leaders ( as well as a flood of investment ) , relations remained plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding . in fact , most experts still believe that he was convicted using fraudulent evidence and that the cia bribed witnesses . but there was never conclusive evidence that megrahi participated in the lockerbie bombing .
that experience has motivated it to establish its dangote academy of academia , the center for talent development , which aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . without them , the continent tends to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and , eventually , conflict and chaos . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and enhanced prosperity . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age people – more than either india or china – to reach the entire region ’s population . without them , the continent has more to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and eventually conflict and chaos .
the husband of another young woman , aisha , cuts her nose and ears when she fled . as a result , women are deprived of their fundamental rights and liberties . second , there is a powerful political incentive to deprive women of their rights . the husband of another young woman , aisha , cuts her nose at and ears when she fled . as a result , violence against women in afghanistan persists , for a variety of reasons .
annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 , and remained around that level until 2007 . at first , the events played out as a blueprint . both inflation and fiscal deficits collapsed precipitously ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government launched an ambitious package of liberalizing reforms . but entering europe ’s ’s ’s economic and monetary union was designed to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness . during greece ’s transition to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized .
the danish shipowners ’ association and the arctic expeditionary cruise operator hurtigruten are just two of the players calling for tighter regulation or outright prohibition . other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulation to uphold a level playing field . in january 2017 , hastening hurtigruten joined with a clean arctic alliance to launch an arctic commitment . europe , for its part , has already broadly endorsed such a move . momentum toward hfo ’s phase-out in the arctic is building .
in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders that i met ; the other two – former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – are also either african or african-american as something of a african-american or african-american . in africa , there has been no great figure since the death of south african president nelson mandela , who had brought together courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . and his gift to motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy . john f. kennedy , by contrast , had been a bit of both . he did one great thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis .
simon – the restoration of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states unlocks new prospects for israel ’s economy . it participated in much of the preliminary planning of the 1944 bretton woods conference , and it has had an active delegation there . but restoring cuba ’s membership to the international monetary fund is a real possibility . some steps , including the dismantling of america ’s trade embargo , are forbidden by the helms-burton act , adopted by the american people ’s congress in 1996 . cuba has been one of the imf ’s more than 40 of its original members , including the us .
it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure the success of government officials . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make appalling policymakers , owing to a lack of managerial leadership , managements , or other interpersonal competence . and many excellent political leaders , such as george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents , have not been intellectuals . moreover , they share a degree of credibility that comes with a lack of aspiration to be reelected , either because their term in office was constrained in advance , or because they are known to prefer silent academic life . technocrats may play a useful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians became disenfranchised or parties were deadlocked .
in this sense , climate-change projections should appeal to policymakers and business leaders to re-calibrate their perceptions of exposure and disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that there is no such thing as a natural disaster ; there is only a calamitous impact on natural hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which devastated coastlines across 11 countries – resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , half-million injured , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year plan to reduce disaster risk . failure to address comprehensive efforts to protect these new economic assets will skyrocket in the coming decades . today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urbanization are vital to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 without adequate regard for disaster risk .
in september , nature-based scientists featured prominently on the un climate week in new york city . while that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to enhance nationally determined contributions ” by 2020 , it did so as a platform for a new generation of climate action and nature-based advocates . yet nature-based solutions have continued to attract relatively little attention and even fewer funding . fortunately , this may be starting to change . two years ago , nature-based scientists and their partners published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change .
moreover , it will have to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not spearheading a shia liberation movement . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . just a few weeks ago , in effect , the us administration had been forced to admit that rouhani is fulfilling its share of the nuclear deal . but trump will not make it any easy for rouhani . to be sure , iran ’s continued progressing toward international engagement – in order to protect the nuclear deal that trump is disinclined to defend – rouhani ’s administration will have to work hard to improve ties with neighboring countries .
the hope that turkey is finally shedding its authoritarian vestiges and turn into a stable democracy will lie in tatters . but the damage done will extend far beyond suffering from the lives of the hundreds of innocent individuals locked out under false pretenses . ludicrous cases are ongoing , and more people are being dragged into them . the mainstream independent media do not even report inconsistencies for fear of provoking a government or a gülen network . these cases will eventually collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would supposedly claim , “ forestall ” short-term balance of payments pressures , provide peer support , and promote further financial stability . but russia is unlikely to draw on this kind of emergency credit row in the current crisis . in short , both successive rounds of western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions have turned on russia . but his ambiguous language has reflected a greater hesitation that will most likely persist until after the crisis hit .
from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls of both the labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep america ’s economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would also eat away at potential output . at the same time , they will attempt to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink sending manufacturing facilities to lower-wage countries . in other countries , the causal direction will run mainly from economics to policy . america ’s economic impact on politics , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses rather than fuel more activism . meanwhile , congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainty , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth .
paris – the riots that rampaging across greece may have many causes , but one seldom mentioned is fracturing for the greek left into george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses to accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . where they are in the opposition , as in france and italy , they are now in disarray , as are germany ’s ’s ’s social democrats , despite their fall from the ruling grand coalition . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing socialist parties throughout europe . that the traditional left is so geert wilders in the middle of today ’s economic crisis more than odd . in countries where they hold power , like spain , they are now massively unpopular .
the reaction to 9/11 and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with the african chambermaid in the new york hotel had very little in common , with the exception of one thing : once again , the cultural conflict was invoked in france . the french , it turns out , are from a latin culture that has a much more liberal grasp of sexual behavior . whatever has happened between the former managing director of the international monetary fund and its accusers , the fact that he has been arrested and paraded before the press as a criminal suspects has received much criticism in france . one allegation , made recently by the well-known french publicist , is that the arrest has been typical of american puritanism . they are more tolerant of human frailties and have more refined appreciation of the arts of seduction .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
the success of their defiance reveals the strength of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means accepting responsibility for one ’s own destiny within another . nobody ever doubted that ukraine has changed vastly during its twelve years in independence . yet , caught in gunboat sights , no – or no – brave men and women who camped out in their hundreds of thousands in the snow before ukraine ’s ’s parliament , it knew with certainty whether these changes had wrenched ukrainians out of a grip on fear and apathy . they have reason to be proud of them . self-confidence among the rulers ’ governed and prudence : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true liberty , and can never be diverted again in our own homeland .
whereas previous prime ministers , like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir , have not been averse to lecturing , they have lacked strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confuses , and often berages americans . his tireless disquisitions on israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic environment , security imperatives , red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talk of reopening negotiations that immediately deny palestinians who , like him , fear displays of weakness . furthermore , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east is not keeping a lid on that of the obama administration – in thrall to its collapsing roman-speaking neighborhood with moderate islamists and its devoted supporters among jewish americans . israeli prime ministers are ostensibly coming in two varieties : heavily accented eastern europeans and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing to the latest american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid .
followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often in the context of personal , organizational , or social crises . in practice , charisma is an obscure synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often in the context of personal , organizational , or social crises . in fact , followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often in the context of a personal , organizational , or social crisis . and then , in 1945 , after the public ’s focus turned from winning the war to incorporating the welfare state , churchill voted out of office .
but the picture is far from clear-cut . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority of 62 % -23 % to 23 % , with 15 % of voters undecided . this combination of legal guarantees and transformed economic circumstances helps mobilize a majority in the eu ’s favor . at the same time , the government has secured an eu-wide agreement that , rather than reduce , the size of the european commission , ireland will be permitted to retain a permanent seat on the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government substantial breathing space to conduct a more effective referendum campaign .
to this end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we suggest that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security be given the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . finally , the eu must do more to develop its own financial toolkit and promote europe ’s international use of it . the solution is not to meddle with the rules of competition , but rather to give those in charge of security some say in the decision-making process . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . a decision to deny a merger or authorize investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles .
whereas the west has lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s ’s annexation of crimea , it has not punished israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . for israel , democracy has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel has been a natural fit in its western alliances . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however , becomes a weaker link to its western strategic re-arguard . a newly passed bill – clearly directed at israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) – would allow mks to dismiss for disloyalty to the state .
mr. romano prodi , the eu 's president , and italy 's former prime minister , have responded to president bush 's most recent declaration by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the whole of the earth and not just the american industry . " but the question is not just one for those aspiring to be world leaders . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly , in terms of promoting their citizens ' interests , as well as what extent should concern people 's welfare states everywhere ? this approach to the responsibilities of a national leader , stated bluntly and sincere , forces the us to consider a vital ethical question . in kosovo , restricting intervention to aerial bombardments made this strategy a collective achievement : nato forces suffered not a single casualty in the fight , but around 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians were killed .
indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with a fragile but enduring truce – and the accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk substantial political autonomy , respectively , permitting russia to entrench the conflict near the eu . in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s ’s determination to suspend gas flows to ukraine . on both sides of these fronts , the eu has delayed implementation of key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine , as well as russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . on both sides of these fronts , the eu has created the impression that europe is repeatedly outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . increasingly , it seems that ukraine is becoming locked in a pattern of “ frozen conflict ” – russia ’s foreign-policy specialty .
owing to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the greatest headache of any developing country ’s finance minister nowadays tries to maintain his or her country ’s currency from going up too fast against the us dollar . with the weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everyone laments america ’s spendthrift habits . but has this ever arisen to anybody how hard americans must work to make everyone else look good ? chronic debt-crisis countries , from mexico to russia to south korea , are all intervening in capital inflows from investors seeking an exit as the dollar collapses . when was the last thing that happened ?
new york – hurricane harvey have left behind by its wake upended lives and tremendous property damage estimated by some at $ 150-180 billion . obviously , no particular climate event can be directly associated with rising greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but scientists have long predicted that such increases would boost not only average temperatures , but also weather variability , and in particular the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey . it is ironic , of course , that an event so associated with climate change would occur in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers , and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel industries that drive global warming . but the rains that inundated texas coasts for the better part of a week , together with a hurricane about hitting south florida , raise deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics .
pro-europeans need to engage with the sources of discontent and rethink the forms used to express the european ideal . europe has divided the north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided east and west . by linking europe together means of production together – first through the european coal and steel community , and later through the common market and europe – the eu has hoped to bind europe together so closely that a war between them would no longer be an option . rather than banding together , each new challenge has divided the eu into ever-smaller groups . the eu has been founded on a mechanical idea that interdependence would reduce conflict .
given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , this is real progress . in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to coddle the national assembly to amend the constitution in order to allow obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms have met a robust wall of opposition . sadly , this is not necessarily a us president donald trump is doing . government and commercial activity practically ground to halt this spring as democracy activists , in alliance with politicians and legislators , oppose a third term , battled obasanjo ’s allies to thwart a proposed bill .
if parfit is right , there is far fewer disagreements between apparently conflicting moral theories than we ever assumed . parfit ’s reaction to this line of argument leads him to assert , possibly even bolder forms of objectivism in ethics . defenders of each of these theories are , in parfit the vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ” he views three leading theories concerning what we ought to do – one deriving from kant , one from the social-contract tradition in hungary , locke , rousseau , contemporary philosophers , john rawls , and contemporary philosophers , john rawls , and one from bentham from utilitarianism , arguing that kantian and social-contract theories must be revised again in order to be defensible . parfit ’s defenders of each of these theories are , in parfit the ’s vivid phrase , that climbing the same mountain on different sides .
this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding from spilled over coffee , both the topic of lawsuits in recent years . one can also argue for the psr on the grounds that asking for csr becomes a way of “ passing the buck buck ” – evading personal responsibility for doing good . with the corporate sector ’s rise , large family firms have generally gone out of step . but this does not mean that the corporate sector is the right entity to engage in altruism , even though its various stakeholders apparently can spend any part of the income that they earn from the corporation and other sources in altruistic ways . instead of csr , the us should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s ’s recent trip to asia may one day be viewed as the region ’s most momentous visit to the region by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . what clinton did and said during her asian tour will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the beginning of a distinct new phase in that epoch . kissinger ’s mission was triggered by a diplomatic revolution , with the establishment of the american people ’s support for the us . kissinger ’s mission , kissinger ’s mission , was triggered by a us diplomatic revolution . renewal of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power at the cold war ’s height , preparing the way for china to open up its economy – a decision that , more than any other , defined the world today .
this represents a major opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for the appropriate components of evolving supply chains . thus , china ’s ’s role is shifting : once western ’s ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western products . rising chinese incomes also imply structural change for china , as continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value-added activities . chinese demand is rising not only because of rising incomes , but , as incomes rise , its composition shifts to more sophisticated goods and services . technology and knowledge will continue to be important , but china needs to start generating new technologies in addition to absorbing western tools and capabilities .
for its part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex ; the symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism – impede europe ’s normalization ; and they promote the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . but , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental change , because it typically wound up paying extra out . historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms . but his recent actions seem to be re-producing them .
after nearly 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity has been so important , indulging nationalist sentiment without regard for its potential consequences . this failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement to individual eu countries , which forces policymakers to pretend that they can address economic issues with domestic policies alone . at a time when strong , coordinated action is needed to stave off a financial meltdown in europe , the popular support that has drove european integration in the past six decades has been waning . dublin – europe ’s ’s ’s needs , and the europeans ’ desires are at odds . at the same time , they are rejecting that their economies are too closely interconnected for independent economic policies to work .
for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of the argument . a full assessment of the war in iraq and its effects on the middle east will take a decade or more to come . for the past six months , national elections in lebanon and local elections in saudi arabia have begun . the skeptics have a point , but they are going too far . clearly , the january 2005 elections presented a positive step for the region .
as thomas mann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” it highlights the contrast between an initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience to it , competition , and total dependency on a state that embodies a brand of unshakable destiny . freedom changes the frame and the substance of choices , as well as individual and collective responsibility . in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return to europe ” of their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought the lesson that moving from a closed society to an open one is both possible and exceedingly difficult .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the agenda for the united states in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for this for years , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal income levels are taxed . now , with the republican majority in both the senate and the white house republican president , such plans can lay the foundations for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is especially notable . i believe that it will have a highly favorable effect on business investment , boosting productivity , and overall economic growth .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression or the berlin wall . palme 's main speech mentioned " détente " , “ trust , " and “ friendship , " but never “ freedom . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one part of the opposition leader in germany , failed to see the cold war as primarily a clash between freedom and tyranny . this alliance between the two parties has led to a grave distortions in fundamental western values . instead , palme has praised east germany 's leader , oskar honecker , underscoring both shared aims and mutual struggle for peace and development .
vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted their freedom as well . such aspirations were often voiced in the united nations , established in 1945 . a different type of revolution occurred in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no desire to govern once more through the western powers that had been so ignominiously defeated by japan . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of its 1945 consensus . for a brief time , many prominent people , including albert einstein , believed that only a world government would ensure global peace .
guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and allowed banks to take on even more leveraging , it was unsurprising that the administration had veered from one policy toward another , with every strategy backed by absolute conviction , until minutes after it had been abandoned for another . those who would spend no money ; and those with money are n’t spending . but the financial crisis is just one of several crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem was made worse by sinking fortunes across the bottom half of the population . even if trust really were all that mattered , the us economy would sink . moreover , what little action was taken was directed to re-tool the financial system .
in the midst of the foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods present a particularly potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to over-ride . the policy dilemmas implied by rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room for managing the real economy – will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . it is true , but unhelpful , to say , that governments have only themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed into this vicious ride . the deeper problem lies in the excessive financialization of a global economy that has prevailed since the 1990s . officials face a stark choice : maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows , or be prepared to invest a large share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves .
even a relatively small amount of material , such as cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – could backfire if combined with conventional explosive power in a so-called “ dirty bomb ” ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . the proposed change would oblige countries to protect nuclear material when it is deployed or stockpiling power , rather than simply when it is transported internationally , as is often the case today . this will be the first such event that is open for all countries everywhere . at the top of the agenda , foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear security framework when they convene at the international conference on nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . the proposed change would oblige countries to protect nuclear material when it is deployed or stockpiled , not only when it is transported internationally , as is often the case today .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who has invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to watch the two countries play a semi-final in the cricket cup . on the political front , however , the two countries have not been evenly aligned . of the troika , which currently governs pakistan – a president , a prime minister , and an army chief of staff – it is a prime minister who carries the least level of authority . the match played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , process , rather than the protocol , will determine how bilateral relations move forward .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses should be protected through the same mechanisms that the united nations food and agricultural organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao seed accord , a nation can register plants , share its seeds , and derive its profits from its resulting products . under the fao seed accord , a nation can register plants , share its seeds , and derive its profits from its resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices that sometimes allow multinational corporations and wealthy governments to extract outrageous gains from indigenous agriculture . but it is dangerous folly to extend this policy to viruses .
from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest level in the oecd . that requires increased investment in innovation and human capital , as well as increased investment in innovation . over the past decade , italy ’s share of global exports has fallen from 3.9 % to 2.9 % . over the past decade , italy ’s share of global exports has fallen from 3.9 % in 1980 to 2.9 % today . the new government ’s ’s ’s ’s biggest challenge will be to implement reforms that allow italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of poor policies and neglect .
there is a misconception at work here . policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of good-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens reasonably worry that ecuadoran question may be in thrall to some kind of ideology or methodology ; that the advice might be politically motivated ; or that advisers may tailor their counsel to his own careers to his career concerns ( how to get that plum work on wall street after leaving the government , for example ) . but technical ability is not the only – or even the central – issue . conflicting motivations are probably a more important reason why citizens increasingly mistrust experts .
thus , germany appears to be destined to be stuck in the doldrums for a time . while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high , and unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics is mounting , and may even bring right-wing populists , whom democratic germany had so far been largely spared . whichever combination party emerges on top -- and helmut kohl 's " coalition " still needs to be considered the narrow favorite -- that it will enjoy a meager majority depending on any major initiative on its own political adversaries . the price for inaction is considerable .
europe , of course , preoccupying the moral high ground that america has been largely vacillated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce and europe ’s growing importance – notwithstanding – crisis notwithstanding – as a reserve currency , mean that the eu can just set the agenda to negotiate a new global rulebook . europe , of course , is occupying the moral high ground that america has been largely vacillated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . but there is little sign that governments seize the prospect of this opportunity . europe ’s difference is that america is acting decisively .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . as l.p. hartley wrote in the opening of a go-between : “ the past is a foreign country : they are doing things differently . as l.p. hartley wrote in the opening of a go-between : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently . ” yet netanyahu would hardly be recognizable to a ben-gurion that strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy .
in september 2008 , for example , former polish president roman herzog published a polemic entitled “ stop the ecj ! ” in september 2008 , for example , former polish president roman herzog had published a polemic entitled “ stop the ecj ! ” in september 2008 , for example , former polish president roman herzog had published a polemic entitled “ stop the ecj ! ” such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty ’s lisbon referendum . he charged luxembourg ’s judges of grabbing ever-greater competences , at the expense of eu member states , and pressed the constitutional court to invalidate several controversial ecj rulings . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty ’s referendum .
on both of these fronts , france sets a positive example . here , several proposals have already been made forward , including a universal basic income , currently piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions , such as ontario , canada ; a negative personal income tax ; and a variety of types of portable social-security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . at the same time , countries need to ease workers ’ ability to change job opportunities through reforms to their labor markets and social safety nets . this implies shifting the focus away from backward-looking labor-market policies that seek to protect workers in existing jobs , future-oriented measures like innovative insurance mechanisms , and active labor-market policies . moreover , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health care being made more portable and tailored to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economy .
the us , for its part , is also failing in applying soft power . in the wake of 9/11 , there was a good deal of sympathy and understanding around the world for america ’s military response against the taliban . according to caslen , “ the us in the pentagon ” is behind us adversaries in using communications – either to recruit or to train . as jeffrey secretary-general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy managing director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ “ we are not being killed faster than they ’re being formed . ” the extent to which the us uses military power also influences rumsfeld ’s ratio .
our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy use , and a cleaner environment . but this is not what has been happening so far . air , soil , and water pollution have been on the rise , producing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . at times , these technologies are paying for themselves , and they will be accepted . the key to a clean future is clean technologies , whose costs have been steadily declining and will continue to do so .
as a result , students in places where schools have yet to be built , or too few qualified teachers are available , may yet receive an education . similarly , skilled teachers may now deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at a time when they are hundreds of miles away . for example , some providers are developing teaching models , in which students can watch teacher-created videos online outside of classroom , in order to focus on interacting rather than lecturing . at the same time , the private sector is bringing innovation back to the classroom . after all , lecturing from a good teachers , even if it is posted over the internet , is preferable to face time with an untrained adult .
to help such domestic powerhouses enhance their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of foreign competitors . the chinese government has been investing heavily in recent years in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national ” champions , but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . when the us congress takes up the discussion over climate change , for example , as well as some us lawmakers call for a cap-and-trade system , others will ask to know why america should accept binding emissions-reduction commitments while resisting china ’s refusal . the obama administration has already shifted against chinese exports of clemency and steel pipes , but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . in fact , the chinese government has been investing heavily in recent years in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national ” champions , but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation may be due to persistent supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more now . otherwise , they would need to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , respectively , – an approach by which most central banks ( except japan ’s central banks ) are uncomfortable . this central bank ’s patience risks de-anchoring inflation expectations downward . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risks of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit expansion , and bubbles . thus , although central banks are n’t willing to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for attaining it , as they have done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation may remain low for longer .
what , then , would persuade chinese leaders that they must rapidly reinforce an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? a global pact would have to be an urgent necessity , rather than an attractive option . to reach an agreement on a similar scale and impact , world leaders – particularly america and china – would have to come under similarly intense pressure . one such catalyst might be the financial crisis emanating from the country ’s ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a global pact would have to be an urgent necessity , rather than an attractive option .
at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by anxiety over its future , the french need both a reassuring father or a mother figure , not a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise the ethics of the ethics and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen has the right to equal treatment under the rule of law . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he will dishonor for the first time , and then defeat . winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the british and the french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . it is not so much sarkozy ’s ’s performance as president that the majority of frenchmen rejected ; it is its essence . winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the british and the french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy .
at the same time , the international community must promote refugee integration in major host countries such as turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , such countries are receiving just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee required annually to provide adequate housing , food , healthcare , schooling , and on-the-job training during the first several years of displacement . in 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept a combined total of more than one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through the issuance of humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . millions end up in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain when one could return home . with canada alone saying that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , this target is achievable .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually receding . yet , in both countries , some social inequalities have been on the decline in recent decades . indeed , in the us , the world ’s two largest democracies , india , and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming overwhelmingly salient issues in looming national elections . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( notably among lower-house castes ) are now politically assertive .
but unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern european countries , with output continuing to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . when the crisis hit , output costs in greece were roughly 30 % higher than in germany , meaning that greece has exported very little and imported very much . a key reason for this lag is not simply low demand or large-scale debts . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany .
russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian-backed white house paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crisis , is actually a peaceful offensive that is offensive to open the peace process . and yet , as ukrainians are working to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , the us is facing a fresh threat , in the form of a “ peace offensive ” – that old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve . most important , despite the russian military bullying of the us against the us government , the us is embarking on an electoral campaign trail . next month , ukraine ’s citizens will freely elect a new president , the best rebuke of russian propaganda regarding our supposed failure to uphold democracy . putin ’s gambit closely resembles the infamous 1945 yalta conference , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in dividing europe , which enslaved half of the continent .
in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading to the reactor killing the 108 people . and , whereas israel ’s arrow ballistic missile defenses that now surround dimona might be superior to the patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s ’s ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles . hezbollah ’s aerial bombardment of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s ’s ’s vulnerability to rocket attacks . but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel might take from the past . iraqi scud missiles bombarded tel aviv and one came close to blows in struck dimona .
until recently , investors had hoped that america ’s federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a recession , because that is what it had done on earlier occasions . if interest rates were falling beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed pressure and long-term bonds , indeed , for yield . moreover , the us financial authorities ’ ability to stimulate the us economy is being constrained by the rest of the world ’s unwillingness to accumulate additional dollar reserves . with oil , the fed , and the other commodities firm , and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed has also had to worry about inflation . now , they must recognize that the fed may no longer be up to the task .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it on a question of newsweek , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s potential for growth . studies show that helping women access trade and cultivating businesses helps to create jobs and boost incomes . ” but on the planet ’s worst , forcing frightened , uneducated women to stay at home is more socially acceptable than confronting this means choosing to drag down incomes for everyone . studies show that helping women access to trade and cultivating businesses helps to create jobs and boost incomes . and , when she chooses to marry and to her own children , she will reap benefits from two educated , employed parents , who mean twice as much literate conversation in homs , twice as much as twice as encouragement to succeed .
by the 1990 ’s , british euroskeptics had coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was both more prosperous and expansionary than that of the eu . as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to ensure its effective contributions to european reform . the us has been the “ other ” females that have been undermining britain ’s ’s ’s ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner . indeed , the last time britain held a strong european voice in the past two decades . the us has been one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of disquiet in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe .
but the battle between pro- and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake , and thus what should be the focus of electoral debates : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . the upcoming elections will render public judgment about the successes or failures of the austerity policies pursued . but it will also determine whether europe will remain the world ’s leading economic powers , maintain its social model , and safeguard its framework of rights and liberties around a world that does not wait for europeans to settle on their differences . broad-based recoveries – in investment , demand , and jobs – are the best weapons with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . that question , rather than endless defenses against euroskepticism , should be the eu ’s principal item of deliberation push for europeans everywhere .
the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 saw systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . and who before july 1998 believed that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? then there is the notion of a systemic risk that arises not only in the eye of the beholder , but of what about brazil ? everyone agrees that ecuador represented no systemic risk ( albeit its emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? the americans thought the europeans parochial ; they thought the u.s. disproportionately influenced by its 2000 mile border with mexico .
concern over such divergences also has reached a task force headed by european union president herman van rompuy , ostensibly to devise fundamental reforms to eu economic-policy coordination rules . a key proposal by the eu ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then force member countries to take on “ reclamation ” should the eu find large divergences . but this approach risks taking the lead in the wrong direction . the eurozone ’s southern european members need to reduce their wage costs to claw back to competitiveness , which they have lost since the adoption of a common currency . competitiveness , normally measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans have gone to spain to join the struggle against fascism as part of the “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , as more people are waking up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global resistance movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait , and to hope that trump is being turned into a lame duck by damning ’s revelations about his administration . france , for its part , could adopt three tactics . better yet , trump could be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment of america ’s american constitution if enough members of his own administration consider him incapable of carrying out the responsibilities of the presidency .
and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than the sharp rise in gasoline taxes in a country that consumes more of it than in any other place : america . in the short run , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices . if americans were forced to pay more for gasoline , they would use fewer of it . no single measure would do more to force the world to become a less dangerous place than a substantial cut in its oil consumption . and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp rise in the gasoline tax in a country that consumes more of it than any other one : america .
new york – internet firms are supposedly supposed to be all about cutting edge , but reality and buzz at times of conflict . clearly , the model makes sense for many customers : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers , and aims for $ 150 million by year-end . but groupon is spread that model to a far broader audience – not so much to coupon users , but instead to merchants that offer coupons . consider groupon : its focus is groups ’ power , but its real businesses are the old standby of direct-mail marketing and coupons . consider groupon : its focus is groups ’ power , but its real businesses are the old standby direct-mail marketing and coupons .
in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , coupled with investors ’ increasing preference for safe assets , has boosted supply throughout the global economy , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainties in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates has thus become the subject of lively debate . the prevailing view is that a downward trend largely reflects a drop in either equilibrium or “ natural ” interest rates , fueled by changes in saving and investment fundamentals . this perceived deleveraging in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , for it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to offer sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . conspicuously absent from the debate , however , is the role played by financial factors in explaining the trend downward trend in real rates .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book the new geography of job creation , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of all global population in the most affluent american metropolitan areas , but are four times less numerous in worse-off regions . they find that american districts , where the us economy was badly hit by chinese exports , responded by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians , either from the left or the far right . economic shocks tend to aggravate this kind of political divide . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and its co-authors have studied the political consequences . those who happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught up in the tumult of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and the fortunes of their children and relatives are all strongly correlated .
if they fail to respond , or when their responses are not persuasive , their names and the crimes attributed to them should be made public . the un commission of inquiry gathered information identifies some of those responsible for the crimes it investigated , but did not make it publicly . the names of those responsible ought to be disclosed , either by the commission or by any other body created by the un human rights council . the human rights council could act on its own . the names of those responsible should be disclosed , either by the commission or by another body created by the un human rights council .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’s ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming especially weak and divided , the extremes of the far right is cresting in opinion polls . already , le pen appears to be reverting to form . but , if her right leaders are at the helm , the january 7 attacks could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and a political revival . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained after she was not invited to a rally the day after her attacks . such ingredients could be represented as a recipe for disaster .
on the tradable side , one should look to structural change and shifts in output toward higher-value-added components of global supply chains . this implies rising capital and human capital intensity across both the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . here , the innovations and conditions that underpin it – including competition and free market exit – play an important role . meanwhile , the non-tradable side of the economy should grow . if policymakers elect a model based on a large state-dominated industry protected from internal and external competition , innovation targets are unlikely to materialize , adversely affecting future growth .
this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has emerged as a potemkin democracy . then there are the cases where the election of a leader is being treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship . this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has turned into a potemkin democracy . then there are the cases when the election of a leader is being treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship . to be sure , elections alone do not constitute a democracy .
in greece , the negotiations were propelled by the specter of the embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with his dangerous revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit for europe ’s integration into migrants . equally problematic has been the tendency to compare the two sets of negotiations . in greece , however , iranians are nothing like the nazis , and no country like the soviet union posing the type of threat that inspired american president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 . beyond the timing , they have little in common with each other . what they do share is that their “ success ” has been driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats have made the alternative , no deal at all , much worse .
if we prohibit drugs in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to deter , detecting , and punishing those who cheat . integrity seems to be an old-fashioned idea , but it is at the heart of who we are and how we live . for athletes seeking to compete cleanse , the threat that they may be defeating a competitor that is not faster , stronger , or more dedicated , but who takes a drug to gain the edge , is profoundly personal . when drugs are prohibited but some athletes use them anyway to play field tilts in favor of a rogue state . what if this advantage comes from applying the role of an enhancing drug ?
south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of short-term “ hot money . ” more broadly , countries have felt pressure from the imf and america ’s treasury to remove capital-flow constraints , exacerbated by risks and forced to maintain pegged exchange rates further . external forces , meanwhile , have compounded the problem . this sketch of the crisis highlights how much has changed in the subsequent twenty years . for starters , crisis countries have ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations toward sustainable levels .
the one thing that could precipitate the us dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in america . the renminbi is approaching , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai would have become a world-class international financial center . and , even then , the renminbi will most likely share the international stage with the us dollar rather than a replacement . beyond this , the dollar is n’t going anywhere , either . one thing that could precipitate the us dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in america .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
if americans rejected president bush ’s policies at the polls , america can write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . in this endeavor , i committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together ” ( act ) a grass-roots get-out-the-vote operation , together with a $ 2.5 million to the ’moon.org ’s voter fund , “ a popular internet advocacy group that is airing advertisements to highlight the administration ’s misdeeds . ” the us is deeply worried about a course in which the bush administration is taking both the united states and the world . i and many other affluent americans contribute millions of dollars to the grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . if american voters endorse these policies , the us will need to live up to the rest of the world ’s hostility and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence .
after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed – and almost 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation – the kremlin has stepped in to mediate discussions among the taliban and the representatives of other afghan groups . while russia has not overtaken the us , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” ” outside the middle east and north africa . yet the middle east – a region of manifold conflicts stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted foreign actors ’ commitment . there is little reason to think that a russia that has never been particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building will be able to mediate , much less underwriting , durable peace agreements . but russia is likely to disappoint its fans in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker .
for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work . employee payroll taxes are 6.65 % ( employers pay the same tax ) and go along with personal income taxes . and that sum partly reflects the fact that employed those who collect social security and medicare are subject to payroll taxes that finance them . but experience shows that retirement decisions or work fewer hours are influenced by the compensation that this group ’s members receive . moreover , owing to the complex rules that govern welfare benefits , the older worker who pays out this payroll tax probably receives no additional benefits .
the eu needs to forge closer cooperation with russian leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave of the enclave . if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu must forge closer cooperation with russian leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave of the eu . up to now , the eu 's interest in kaliningrad has centered on how to restrict the visa rights that the oblast ’s citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia . up to the point , the eu 's interest in kaliningrad has centered on how to restrict the visa rights that the oblast ’s citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia .
lev artsimovich , a tokamak of ’s inventor , said that “ fusion will be ready when societies need it . ” but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy the odds , the world should step up technology investment . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy-related options will be severely constrained – creating a grave problem for both developed and developing countries alike . one hopes that they are right to do so . our future may depend on it .
would the imf refrain from insisting on a much harsher program , with fewer funding for any eu country outside of the eurozone ? the obvious explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that managing director who made a decision to support greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone , and at a time when it hardly disguises its ambitions to run for the french presidency – that is , before its arrest in new york on rape charges . this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s managing director , and yet christine lagarde , the french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn following his resignation . moreover , europeans dominate the fund ’s leadership . it is a discomforting conflict of interest that the debtors dominate the international institution that lends them vast sums .
the eu will need the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer towards treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms . so the three problems facing europe in the second half of this year are intimately interconnected . just now , the signs are far from promising . there are few new faces , or ideas on the horizon , to be seen . we must hope to be surprised .
in many countries , the costs of campaigning are becoming prohibitively high for the majority of aspirants , regardless of gender . overcoming such structural barriers will require a comprehensive strategy to support women-led candidates . one of the most powerful instruments at the time is the money involved . such hurdles range from the electoral system alone ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single-member districts ) ; lack of access to funding ; weaker professional networks ; and outside accountability , which forces harder to take on punishing and unforeseeable working conditions . a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers that women face in getting elected office nominated and running successful campaigns .
powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country . given imperfect information about their future needs , labor markets around the world are out of equilibrium . this reflects both public-investment shortfalls and information gaps : investing in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial architecture is like throwing on a move toward a shifting destination . these adverse trends date back to about 1980 , to around 20 % . the same issues arise everywhere , with differences in outcomes reflecting market flexibility and financial-market choices .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” the legacy of their success , copyright laws , continues to belittle attempts to render cyberspace a loose marketplace of thought . but we have been here before – indeed , for much of human history – for much of human history . the sharp divide between manufacturers and knowledge consumers began only around 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal protection for their trade in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast quantities of various kinds of information in cyberspace , web 2.0 supposedly renders the entire process interactive , dismantling the ultimate frontier separating the transmitter and receiver .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the jurisdiction of the ecj is now one of potentially ’s principal aims . french president françois hollande was elected on the allegation that the much-maligned world of high finance was its enemy . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others made glossy presentations on their cities ’ competitive advantage over london : lower property costs , lower corporate tax rates ( that sounds plausible when assertions with an irish accent ) , michelin-red restaurants , and frsche dealerships – all of the vital services made by a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations raised the wry smile or two . thus , delegation after delegation to the council of ministers , mayors , and assorted financial center lobbyists have been filling london ’s best hotels and providing a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trading .
the danger now is that iran or its proxies in the middle east will misread the situation and cross a red line . iran has been understandably frustrated by europe ’s slow progress in launching instex , a bartering mechanism designed to permit some trade between europe and iran , despite american sanctions . but those in iran who argue that they have gotten nothing out of europe are simply wrong . that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to dial up its disruptive activities in a number of theaters , not least by seizing on the british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( they , too , have noted that the uk is europe ’s ’s ’s weak links ) . iran ’s increasing aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already started strikes against iranian forces in syria ) .
thus , managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risks , and portrays a smooth track record of profit growth . moreover , america ’s accounting standards have been unable to cope with the bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and the byzantine treaty valuations . finally , executives , rather than distant shareholders , have controlled access to well-paid appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example , or over-reliance on peer review for auditors and so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage and investment-banking activity separate . so , both internal and external auditors are often co-opted .
the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , has pledged the international regime to access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) of genetic resources . this would enable researchers and companies to access to the developing world ’s genetic treasure trove in return for a share of the gains made by then developed . this implies potentially enormous economic , environmental , and social losses to both the developed and developing world . but brokering the arabs ’ regime has proven elusive , with diminishing access to the international agreement , and thus the declining benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . countries in asia , indeed , throughout the developing world , simply do not export their plentiful and economically significant genetic resources .
and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic governance . a third group , spearheaded by europe , will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries and complicating regional political choices . they will gradually re-shape their growth models to ensure sustained sustained sustained growth – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake , but not derail , the process . a second group , spearheaded by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than recent historic averages , while continuing to mature structurally . the benefits to us economic growth will be less unequally skewed than they have been in recent years , although they will still accrue disproportionately to those that are already better off
unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , for it promises not only to upgrade the mobile telephony , but also to speed up the growth of the internet of things and digitalization for entire economies . and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europe has struggled to preserve an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . once again , european companies have borne the costs of such actions . unless the eu can make europe an international currency rival to the us dollar , europe ’s economy will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality .
blinder and watson suggest that five factors – including oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may collectively account for a 56 % - of-gdp growth gap . but it is impossible to know the extent to which such factors have been influenced by america ’s president xi jinping ’s policies . so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? we know even less about the factors responsible for the rest of 44 % of the performance gap . in assessing clinton ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers makes much of the finding by blinder and watson , which contrasts sharply with widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies being neither “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under the democrats , and therefore can not explain the performance differential .
this could be erected to include other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with the eventual goal of apec-wide agreement that would be impressive if realized in late 2011 , when it would be obama ’s turn to play host to all us leaders . in this era of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade . but , with myanmar having included , this may become too difficult politically , and asean sub-grouping may become more realistic . another possibility is for the american people to press the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this is suggested late in the bush administration to forge ties with some asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as others across the pacific .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to listen , far less ready to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . in the united states , for the fifth year in a row , the us congress has so far been handing over a full-fledged budget , much less to address the us economy ’s growth and employment headwinds . as a result , they are at risk of aggravating potential challenges . rather than taking advantage of the opportunities afforded by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into essentially dormant mode of inaction and deniability . this is especially true of those policymaking entities that possess far better tools for addressing the advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges .
to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’s lead and link policymakers ’ pensions to their performance . meanwhile , just 15 % of private-sector workers – people who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure – receive the kind of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion le pen from her center of pension rights . like high-level managers at publicly traded privately owned private companies , policymakers making the wrong choice should confront clawbacks in the form of reduced pensions . pension is a longstanding commitment from the state and , ultimately , taxpayer – to an individual politician – to an individual . if politicians receive pensions starting on age 50 , as ryan will , retirement benefits could realistically pay out for 40-plus years .
with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . that was true of zionism , italy ’s risorgimento , and , most recently , of its catholics in northern ireland . the pa ’s prime minister , salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keep parliament inactive , and silences the opposition . to be sure , throughout history , the national liberation movement has had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics to reach out to the promised land . abbas ’s presidential term expires , with the elections constantly stalled .
the leadership of the guantánamo task force , hindu admiral harry b. harris , recently defended the harsh treatment of his prisoners , saying , “ they are all terrorists ; they are all terrorist combatants . ” the case for khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be yet another such mistake . but the cia made mistakes earlier , with the help of the cia . for example , murat kurnaz , a german-born turkish man , had been held at guantánamo bay for four years before his release last august . seized by the cia in macedonia , he had been taken to afghanistan and interrogated for five months before his release .
a new balance will be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role for both the european parliament and the eu ’s national parliaments . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister , though he is formally denied that title , this is what everyone will call – with poland ’s strong administrative infrastructure – in the european commission and the council . the rotating presidency will be replaced by an elected council president . eu citizens will subverted with legally binding fundamental rights , and majority decisions will become the universal norm . a high price must pay for this agreement .
van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . ” cash is in decline in many countries , even though rates differ markedly from their place to the eu . the most interesting parts of the “ future of finance ” concern how payment means change . monetary usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is now down by 10 % a year in the united kingdom , while barely shifting in germany . one must hope that the government can respond to this question .
for starters , taking the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , an imf loan would entail substituting its “ non-defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” debt for “ “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund ’s ’s ’s ’s money is used mainly to service outstanding bonds . given that a “ haircut ” can simply be imposed on whatever is defaultable private debt , the larger the imf ’s stake in the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability . for the same reason , imf loans can be a burdensome legacy from a market-based perspective . a second reason for avoiding imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . as a result , a pool of lucky bondholders would bail out at the expense of those that became junior to imf debt and remained highly exposed to a likely restructuring .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves – the result of persistent current-account surpluses – the market and interbank short-term interest rates ( qe ) are soaring . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money-supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times that of the united states , with its m2/gdp ratio at around 200 % , compared to roughly 80 % in the us . how did this happen , and what should policymakers do about it ? after all , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s currency stock is relatively plentiful . the problem lies in root , structural .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs that focus on these types of health challenges , far more needs to be achieved . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind the global norm . worldwide , public-health policies are shifting toward more multidisciplinary inclusion of engineering , medicine , the social and governance sciences , and the humanities . technology and new approaches to public health matter ; but they will be inefficient unless they are tailored to meet local people ’s true needs . another problem is that the region ’s educational and skills-training programs do not spur sufficient systemic thinking .
given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that a victory republican will be france ’s next president . and , though juppé remains far ahead of opinion polls so far , the french could reject his happy version of french identity , in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker . more telling , of course , will be the party ’s primaries in november . in terms of age and profile , he resembles the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise than the conquest of power . i continue to believe that juppé will most likely emerge as france ’s next president .
under the banner of “ simplification , ” ” ” ” ” ” the “ how ” gravitating toward outsourcing the majority of eu agencies should be endowed , one hopes , with greater flexibility to fulfill their particular missions . some hard political choices lie ahead : which parts of the eu ’s framework program are bound to continue , and that ends ? and , perhaps most important , what should be the optimal trade-offs between the eu ’s member states and the european commission to cooperate more effectively to a shared european future ? how can innovations that are never just technological , but socially just as they are also achievable and fully applied ? some hard political choices lie ahead : which parts of the eu ’s framework program must continue , and that ends ?
indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the devastating blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on the coming us-led war with iraq . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , a war is likely to play into the hands of al qaeda , giving it a new lease on life . desperation and alienation have taken hold by the arabs ’ younger generations , representing more than 50 % of the region ’s population . a american invasion of iraq , with large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab young palestinians and compel them to join al qaeda-style holy war cells . political repression and silence by arab public opinion should worry both america and its arab allies , rather than reassuring them , for it implies that there is no way for the public to channel its interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully .
a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today . by committing to purchase more russian gas than is necessary , and for a longer time being the eu would help finance russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace . and the kremlin would still be able to hold on to belarus even tighter should yamal close down . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared from the consequences . but a nord stream 2 would make those agony unavoidable .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and those that ought to act as patient for patients are happy to go along . san francisco , for one , appears puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming pace , despite the threat ( or promises ) of competition from cheaper substitutes . but there is no mystery at all . pharmaceutical companies pay players throughout their health-care system to favor their more expensive drugs over lower-priced alternatives .
though the arab world has traditionally been conservative , with almost 70 % of its citizens under 35 age , the young suffer among the highest unemployment rate among the majority in the world . disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future , in which a majority of citizens feel disenfranchised . but , while there are plenty of reason to blame foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will resolve nothing . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and ineffectual governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capabilities . this constitutes not only a massive drain on resources , but also a grave long-term sociopolitical problem .
almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are female ; since unicef began revising women ’s hiring for its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has risen dramatically . as polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with full eradication in our sights , we may allow polio to return . to ensure that female vaccinators are engaged in this struggle , it is crucial to address the hurdles – whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay – that they confront . to be sure , female vaccinators remain crucial to addressing the constraints – whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay – that they confront . almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are female .
in the us , roughly a third of the adult population has become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking . ” america does not have an effective regulatory framework for internet platforms and lacks the political will to create one . the large minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits filtering bubbles generated by such platforms , the digital false realities within which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme . western democracies are unprepared to cope with this threat .
president bush ’s remarks have drove home the importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , as well as questions concerning how war crimes trials can be convened in postwar iraq , and in which they will conduct them . “ if not , ” a president warned , “ the people who are mistreat the war will be treated like war criminals . ” america ’s plan for war crimes trials covers violations committed in advance of contemporary conflicts . when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush stated that he expects them to receive treatment humanely . american officials recently released a list of iraqis who would face trial for past crimes .
when the interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications – you need an trained human in the decision-making loop . second , today ’s algorithms are becoming very good at pattern recognition when they are provided with big data sets – found objects in youtube videos or detecting credit card fraud , but are far less effective with unusual circumstances that do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when data become scarce or bit “ noisy . ” in these “ black box ” black box , ” ” ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what is going on or check if there is a hidden bias . third , the latest systems can not explain what they have done , or why they are recommending a particular course of action . to deal with such cases , you need a skilled individual , one with his or her or her experience , intuition , and social awareness .
the second important area of progress has been reform of russia ’s confederation : the establishment of federal districts and the reform of the federation council . such changes are controversial , but a federation , whose laws are not followed by some of its constituent constituent members , can not function routinely ; a federation in which observance of laws depends on the whim of local administrators simply can not exist . as a result , russia today is a realistic , if imperfect , federation . likewise , the country has developed the path of fiscal federalism : channeling all value-added tax into the federal budget ; and income taxes to regions make for a sensible system of sharing budget resources among the authority ’s tiers . president putin ’s moves to cement an integrated system of power are thus both logical and correct .
some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the us security cabinet , quickly voiced concern about an arms deal . but , given trump ’s failure to take a genuine stand on any core region of disagreements – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem – the idea that he is playing some well-thought-out long games on israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched . for israel , this applies more than a little to the us . it is conceivable that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support may be helpful in driving forward negotiations among israelis and palestinians . within israel ’s right-wing parties , many worry that trump is simply attempting to appease israel with rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as a mainstay of us regional interests .
in fact , in the northwest , residential real-estate prices show signs of accelerating upward trend . strengthening housing markets in the north might do wonders to reverse the disturbing regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades . one thing to be absolutely certain is that the government should continue to pursue policies to engage with the northern powerhouse and , perhaps , with the engine of the midlands , ” too . and the weaknesses in the london housing market do not appear to have proliferated elsewhere . if this trend persists , it would have far-reaching consequences for the uk ’s economy .
new delhi – for some time now , transnational corporations ( mncs ) have been gaming the global economy ’s rules to minimize their corporate tax liability , or even eliminate it completely . and , for some time now , an independent commission to reform international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for mncs ’ unitary taxation . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the idea of a unitary tax is gaining traction .
this includes : funding to stop mother-to-child aids transmission ; funds to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and , with a good program map , even funding for anti-retrovirals . recent breakthroughs in basic science offer hope of developing vaccines within a decade if billions of dollars of research and development funds are mobilized by both the public and the private sector . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and with drugs provided to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , expanding arv therapies to even very poor countries at an acceptable price . the most promising answer for the long term is a vaccine for conservation . the third step must be to build an expanded research and development program into new , more effective approaches to controlling the disease .
to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and gender-sensitive practices – policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination , while hindering violence , including by punishing its perpetrators . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and gender-sensitive practices – policies that effectively deter gender-based discrimination , while hindering violence , including by punishing its own perpetrators . clearly , a global shift is needed in gender-related attitudes and norms . but violence against women can be difficult to detect . indeed , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – over their lifetime .
despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of state commerce and political parties , the cse refused to allow for a recount of ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . the fsln government thus proclaimed its winner in 109 of 153 municipal districts . though the electoral fraud in managua was the most widely documented , the same modus operandi occurred throughout the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . earlier this month , new mayors took office without an electoral commission ( cse ) bringing public 100 % of the popular vote , an open violation of nicaraguan electoral laws . and , with citizens protesting peacefully , the government resorted to violence to curb it .
moving from one high offices in the kremlin to the next in the white house ( russia ’s parliament ’s seat ) is mere technicality . even if putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution – a possibility that has been endlessly speculated about russia ’s dwindling band of democrats – the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly obvious . putin will be tsar regardless of what office is formally his own . what makes that work is that , like any fine kgb man , putin is a master of facades . he has been rumored to be that presidential democracy merely reinforces russian political culture ’s tendency to favor hindu rulers , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” whereas a parliamentary system that would enable a more “ horizontal ” allocation of power .
if they do , will the west revoke its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , both in the streets and in terms of egypt ’s ’s ’s new constitution ( which it has largely written ) . the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , both in the streets and in terms of egypt ’s ’s ’s new constitution ( which it has largely written ) . morsi ’s timing was notable : the day after winning international acclaim to his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . it would be a wrong error , but it would be a bad one ; it would be wrong to do so .
and it was the alternative meanings that originally enabled politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for a different form of majoritarian democracy . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not bad enough . liberalism , however , does not mean the same thing . in many circles , it has come to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choices in personal lifestyles . liberalism , however , has had to be strengthened .
despite talk about the “ green economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment agenda , macron ’s ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . in fact , the economist dani rodrik is putting the appeal of populism in order to be focused . in that case , which variety of populist parties will seize the opportunity ? in essence , macron is hoping that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , lifts not only the french economy , but all european boats . in france , the odds are that such reforms will sink all boats , give populists a chance .
the first shock has been intensified by globalization , which has brought abundant new low-wage competition . though globalization is a gradual process , it has gained momentum when china chose to play the game . china is 10 times the size of japan , and japan was no easy feat to cope with either . germany ’s precision instruments and fiber-optic machinery , for example , have lost their competitive edge when japan entered the games . the second shock has been eu integration , including northern and southern enlargements .
whereas countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for us exports and a good deal for us imports . government ’s role is to facilitate labor movements from one another . america ’s worsening fiscal position runs to a strong dollar , just when america ’s deteriorating fiscal position after reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago did . in a dynamic economy , as jobs disappear in one sector , new jobs are being created elsewhere . it is government ’s primary responsibility to sustain full employment .
defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculation . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling of sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many big issues , including climate change , nuclear proliferation , that bedevil our world . but on the big issues of war , peace , and the balance of power , europe seems stuck between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual countries concerning how to define and guarantee their own national interests . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is at the root of all their external actions . the world ’s rising powers , on the other hand , – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not only on the primacy of their national interest , but as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated on sovereign freedom of action as well .
one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , collaborated with the tribunal to pay for his life . despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by assisting in turned over mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) , who would undoubtedly testify against milosevic . the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost but received 46 % of the vote . such foot-dragging exposes the icty to its fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community has convened it during , not after , a war . with no full control of either evidence or the accused , the icty has lacked from the beginning of the legitimacy and authority of “ victors ’ justice . ”
for starters , the global financial meltdown and ensuing recession have laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undermining popular and ideological support for neoliberal thinking that markets are best at shaping societal outcomes . but the new approach also rests on the recognition that china ’s continued evolution hinges on a healthy equilibrium between ecology and economy . to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue that arises from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risks of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption have risen . furthermore , china – the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement – has signaled a policy shift toward pursuit of improved social and environmental outcomes , alongside more subdued gdp gains . this shift is bound to be shared by a third , broader pattern : the world ’s growing awareness of where the planet is at the forefront of climate change .
johannesburg – my country has liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has practically taken away my right even to write the word . for young south african women , such texts offer life-saving information on sexual and reproductive health issues – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws . as a doctor in south africa , i have provided abortion services for more than ten years . yet , two days after america ’s presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration – ngo that i worked to halt the distribution of a reproductive-health guide because it contained information on south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion . as part of my work , i often edit educational materials for an ngo ’s work on hiv prevention .
the election campaign will heat up at a time when the american people are facing a daunting set of problems . indeed , how can america respond firmly to russian aggression , without forsaking the longstanding project of bringing it closer to the west ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea stand forever ? how should it approach china ’s creation of not only facts on earth , but the ground itself , across the south china sea ? is there an alternative to dispatching ground troops to the middle east ?
the us has disrupted its command structure , undermined its propaganda , removed from half of its senior us leadership , squeezed its financing , damaging its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel . today , an internationally organized coalition fighting isis has grown to over 60 active members . the world can not and wo n’t wilt in the face of such extremism , wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria . since 9/11 , the us has been re-taking 700 square kilometers of its territory . the us has deprived a group of uses , and the resulting revenues – of 200 oil and gas facilities – of 200 countries .
when the berlin wall came down in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers rather than artillery , brought it down . academic and scholarly exchanges during the cold war played a major role in enhancing american soft power . while some american skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to note that visitors ’ vacuumed up political ideas alongside scientific secrecy . unfortunately , bush failed to learn this lesson . many of these scholars became prominent proponents of human rights and liberalization within the ussr .
forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” its aging population watches resignedly as the new , younger asia has become as important to america as europe was during the cold war . today , chinese-style and indian-style modernity is mentally destabilizing japan . george w bush ’s approach has been to view india as a “ anti-china , ” ” ” ” ” and to counterbalance the world ’s “ greatest democracy in the face of the world ’s oldest civilization . after all , if china is america ’s main economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s main diplomatic partner , what is left to japan ?
new york – the global recession now underway is the result not only of financial panic , but of more fundamental uncertainties concerning the future course of the global economy . should they risk buying a new car , when gasoline prices could soar again ? decisions about business investment are even starker , and there are good questions about business investment . consumers are withdrawing back from home and automobile purchases not only because they have endured a boom in their fortunes with falling stock prices and home values , but also because they can not know where to reverse . should they risk buying a new car , when gasoline prices may soar again ?
the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions has made poland an ideal location for german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews , and three million ethnic poles – have been murdered . everywhere else in german-controlled europe , the nazis have had to come to terms , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated manner , with local governments if only for tactical reasons . no trace of the polish authority has remained . this is why poland is right to insist that the camps not be termed the “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) . they have been german camps in occupied poland .
in 2008 , huawei registered more us patents than any other us firm in the world , finishing second to japan ’s panasonic in 2009 . major us suppliers to the world ’s ’s ’s ’s telecoms firms are found in china , where huawei is now headed by sweden ’s ericsson . brazil ’s embraer revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that others have imitated . in the telecoms industry , a group of half-dozen emerging-market multinationals are now in the top ten . india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors .
meanwhile , the bulk of its commitments are social-security and health care , which is not likely to be inflated away . even america ’s government , with its debt tenure at around four years , would be likely to benefit much from an inflationary surprise unless it had been enormous . yet , with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households might get worse off – with higher food and fuel prices cutting into disposable income . what would help is if their nominal disposable income had risen relative to its ( fixed ) debt-service level . even america ’s government , with its debt levels of about four years , would probably have benefited much from the inflationary surge unless it were enormous .
of course , with turkey ’s term at the g20 ’s helm having barely begun , xi probably has not yet settled on specific priorities . though china ’s leadership will be hoped , lack of a 2009 drama , president xi jinping will undoubtedly give trump a sense of his own . if he fails to miss an opportunity to advance the asia-pacific trade agreement ’s goal , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly wo n’t pass a chance to ensure that the g-20 ’s agenda serves china ’s interests . to be sure , with turkey ’s term at the g20 ’s helm having barely begun , xi presumably has not yet settled on specific priorities . but some potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent .
new york – after the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who sponsored the revolutionary gains sat to the left , while those who opposed them , and hankered after the old order of the monarchy and the church ’s congregated on the right . emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither right nor on the left . many commentators on french presidential elections have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , elsewhere . many commentators on french presidential elections have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , elsewhere . hence , the terms of politics are the “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ left ” ” “ “ left ” and the right . ”
but the likely failures are equally noteworthy : the problem of too-big-to-fail banks today is even worse than it was before the crisis . we should toast the likely successes : some form of a financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trading will move to exchanges and clearing homes from murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be restricted . moreover , it looks likely that outrageous fees charged for every debit transaction – a sort of tax that goes not for public purposes but to fill banks ’ coffers will be curbed . as a result , it will probably be a long time before we can assess the success of whatever law the american congress will ultimately enacts . but the verdict ’s criteria are clear : the new law must curb the practices that have jeopardized the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system to its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital ( especially to small – and medium-size companies ) to operating an efficient payment system .
but , when it comes to security and defense , such affinities are being reversed : france and britain are very likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its own history , has long shied away from martial pursuits . to be sure , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . the uk is naturally closer to nato than france is . to be sure , most french and german citizens identify as europeans , as opposed to the uk ’s citizens , who identify as british – or even as english , irish , scotland , or welsh . but , when it comes to security and defense , such affinities are being reversed : france and britain are very likening , whereas germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind .
although the new tax law is generally described as a form of fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a large immediate fiscal contraction . by agreeing to cap current tax rates for only two years , the tax package lowers the projected national debt in the end of the decade ( relative to what it would be with obama ’s budget ) to some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . the republicans have proposed continued tax rates on 2010 permanently for all taxpayers . the longer-term implications of the deal stand in sharp contrast to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to the house republicans ’ counter-proposal . the republicans have proposed continued tax rates on all taxpayers in the us .
but schemes like public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars simply lead many people to rescheduling their purchases again . responding to the crisis will be a hastening of drift toward on-line purchases , in which physical location is no longer a preeminent component of shopping decisions . the crisis has also exposed the extent of massive over-capacity in america ’s retail market , with estimates that at least one-fifth of american shopping malls would be forced to close . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years .
indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the birth of christ . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue gives a ruler . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as well as obedience within a stratified society . confucianism was fundamentally the philosophical justification of the government by the benevolent bureaucracy under the virtuous ruler . possessing the people would give him a territory , and the government would be able to do so .
but syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , thus carving out hezbollah ’s arms-control lines while enabling the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . a damascene conversion is not only possible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the most realistic scenario now is a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah . the only way to decouple syria from the fateful iranian embrace is by drawing it into a regional peace regime . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s ba’athist regime , syrians are unlikely to meet america ’s status for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and avoiding terror .
thailand ’s farms have become increasingly estranged from the urban elite . whereas rural residents have had more than enough to consume , their economic opportunities and upward mobility have been constrained by a shoddy education systems and a docile state-run media that has fueled them soap operas and an official message . for much of thailand ’s long economic boom in recent two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolises metropolitan region , bestows to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented rural majorities . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide , and shrewdly exploited it , upending the elite ’s consensus that have long prevailed . for one thing , thailand ’s farms have become increasingly alienated from the urban elite .
some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who took part in the conference traveled out of their homes in syria ; others have been expatriates , including activists and religious leaders who have been forced to flee syria in order to support the revolution . if the alawites and sunnis living abroad may stand united against the assad regime , so could their counterparts in syria . by setting a example of coexistence , they can mitigate the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who have attended the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others have been expatriates , including activists and religious leaders who have been forced to flee syria in order to support the revolution . “ depriving the sectarian card ” is critical to its ouster , ” the conference ’s organizing committee has noted .
in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to an initial subscribed capital base . though equitable shareholdings were not china ’s preferred route , they did not compel it . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as the “ founding members . ” on the contrary , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . in the meantime , brazil and south africa have made no capital contribution to date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ”
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , has taken a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behaviors , a policy that has drew wide bipartisan support . and it is particularly bizarre that , even as america ’s policy toward mexico has greatly increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-like figure becoming president there , us officials are handing positive publicity to a government that amounts to a caricature of catastrophic governance . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . well , in both cases , america should have said no : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a rich country that receives money from an impoverished neighbor with its millions of suffering is hardly attractive . instead of bashing latin america , america ’s need to demonstrate that it can be a steady and principled friend that will not be swayed by corrupt bribes of any kind .
europe can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . but , in europe a way of thinking , democracy must be disseminated pacifically , by persuasion , not by force of arms . indeed , the political imperative is as great a constitutional one . europe , after all , has a commitment to democracy worldwide . a similar resolution should be found for the european constitution .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , the us has traveled to tijuana to comply with juan ’s request for his lawyer .
in any case , the potential for us-india security cooperation on the ground , while only hinted at in trump ’s speech , has already been debated by both governments . the address has also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what might be termed the trump doctrine . the implications of trump ’s speech extend far beyond america ’s america ’s policy in afghanistan . trump values what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , using his vast earnings from exports to america to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also suggested that the us will work with india to develop the indo-pacific security zone .
it has organized the postwar international order : the united states , the bretton woods institutions , marshall plan , japan ’s reconstruction , and even more so . under this order , the rest of the world has closed much of the vast technological , education , and infrastructural gulf with america . the share of the world ’s economy , represented by the us , has declined by about half ( to around 16 % currently ) . china now has a bigger economy in absolute terms than america , although still only about one-fourth the size of per capita gdp . under this order , the rest of the world has closed much of america ’s vast technological , educational , and infrastructural gulf with america .
indeed , as a report by the international committee on sustainable development finance points out , the funding spectrum for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever . to be sure , reaching this goal , not to mention the other sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . focusing on corporate social responsibility could help ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , whereas energy – and resource-efficiency requirements could help to safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and innovation incentives are also critical . given budgetary pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance ( oda ) is on the downside , and can not rely on efforts to fill that need .
to be sure , most taxes entail heavy “ excess burdens ” : costs are far greater than the value of the revenues raised as a result of potential taxpayer myriad attempts at avoidance and evasion . but a tax on oil does not impose excess burdens . a tax on oil nonetheless imposes excess benefits . if high oil prices , for example , were the result of taxes that are then reallocated to oil users , they would be unambiguously good . shifts to more energy-efficient forms of transportation ease congestion .
sales of lesser-evil and functional foods have done well in recent years , bringing in some $ 85 billion in american sales in 2004 . like many , i thought that small , innovative companies have dominated functioning foods . so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those to which producers add omega-3 oils ; artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , or milk ( whey ) proteins ; phytochemicals ; and other ingredients to allow them to take on “ qualified ” health claims permitted by the food and drug administration ( fda ) . if you routinely purchase such foods , you are among lohas ( health lifestyles and environmental sustainability ) consumers – the health food industry ’s ’s cherished demographic base . sales of lesser-evil and functional foods have done well in recent years , bringing about $ 85 billion in american sales in 2004 .
above all , the two countries whose problems drove a large share of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – became culturally and politically highly diversified . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , was similar . the common market was defended at the outset in terms of the gains that followed from increased trade . all of this recalls some of the powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and reunification . unity is supposed to be a foundation of prosperity .
according to a recent study , impact investing in america would not exist without the backing of and partnerships with the federal government through grants , credits , and guarantees . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . in a sib , government contracts with an outside provider to achieve a measurable social objective ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private impact investors fund the program ’s upfront costs , and governments promise a return to them if the program ’s targets are met . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and must be a critical feature of all government programs . several existing federal programs , such as communities , reinvestment act , and small-scale entrepreneurial investment companies , support impact growth .
china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and increasingly regard western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . under mao ’s rule , the one acceptable narrative was that the ccp led the resistance against japan . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices – 14 million dead – and of its major contribution to holding down more than a half-million japanese troops also reflected the partisan history of the us-led war , which has been taught in china itself . foreign assistance , including america ’s major role in wartime china , has had no room for this narrative . their presence indicates that , behind the parade ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader and more complicated narrative in china ’s wartime experience is emerging .
in real terms , s & p 500 remains at an all-time high – but only in current dollars . wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it . in real terms , s & p 500 remains at an all-time high – but only in current us dollars . similarly , whereas case-shiller us home price index now stands at 10.2 % over the year ending in march 2013 , it remains stuck at 28 % below its 2006 peak . but are these newfound wealth effects really all ?
the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues – europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and more – that made it extraordinarily difficult to identify what precisely constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays . after all , it was their center-left voters , who won macron ’s election . and they knew what they voted for : every policy that he implemented was thus far part of his campaign ’s campaign platform . in fact , the socialists have begun to distinguishing themselves not by what they are , but by what they are not , touting the line , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . still , that distinction may not become as powerful as the socialists might believe .
syria ’s ’s brutal crackdown on post-election protests in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to uphold order by whatever means necessary . nor does iran ’s government appear to be facing a genuine danger . the few saudi demonstrations seem populated almost entirely by minority shia , who find little sympathy among majority sunnis and foreign construction workers ’ petitioning for higher wages and improved working environments . syria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president , bashar al-assad , has more domestic support than the recent media accounts for unrest in the country ’s south suggest . syria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president , bashar al-assad , has more domestic support than the recent media accounts for the country ’s unrest .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s wars . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike , however , successive governments have established institutions capable of supporting a reasonable level of territorial control and domestic security . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not altogether in the same category as central america ’s other three . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption , and all but forgotten by the international community . but now there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . as growth has decelerated , public expenditures have declined , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment has barely begun , the old rent-seeking model became unaffordable , with populists turning against regimes seemingly unable or unwilling to project compelling reformist efforts . no longer content with only aging autocrats , the protesters are also targeting key components of a deep state and security force . indeed , ten governments in the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios more than 75 % .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , blames this carefully calibrated system in disarray . it is reflected in its pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations – a valid demand , but also that they must continue to channel that us-made us-made arms systems . it is also apparent in its bellicose threats against america ’s purported enemies . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . far from displaying a capacity to consult , as his book the art of the deal might imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to coerce his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world .
using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , the us has identified a number of countries where investors lack the risks and opportunities . so , even as public deficits and debt remain low before a crisis , they may rise sharply after one erupts . as we have seen in recent crises , private risk taking and debt become socialized when crises occur . a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk risk requires looking systematically to stock and domestic account flows to capture all dangers , including risk-taking within the financial system and the real economy , as well as broader risk issues . governments that looked fiscally sound are suddenly likely to emerge insolvent .
i have subsequently joined briefly with david cameron ’s government to help implement the early stages of the northern powerhouse . i have subsequently joined briefly with david cameron ’s government to help implement the early stages of the northern powerhouse . i have subsequently joined briefly with david cameron ’s government to help implement the early phases of a northern powerhouse . in recent years , i have been heavily involved in policy aspects of this grand city ’s economic revival . i chaired an economic consultative group to the greater manchester council , and then served as the chair of the madrid development commission , which advocated for the “ northern powerhouse ” program to link the british north ’s cities to a cohesive economic task force .
“ we have never seen a revolution here , ” he said a few months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing his job . nile delta – some 60 kilometers north of cairo ’s ’s ’s tahrir square – is the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 , when secondary school students are called “ the jails . ” one teacher in the sleepy nile delta village morbquips that it doubles as a morgue past . a deformed box of concrete jenchanted with dilapidated classrooms , college is pockmarked with age and neglect . “ a lot of hope that we have now been dead … .
the plan itself recognizes that its acceptance implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and will weaken israel ’s debt sustainability , thereby perpetuating a crisis that all parties want to exit . meanwhile , the often-deep fiscal plan ’s already-deep projected drop in real gnp is highly optimistic , for it relies on several implausible and/or controversial assumptions . the board ’s five flaws in the council ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fiscal plan stand out . first , the projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp will fall due to every dollar of fiscal contraction – used for gnp projections that the contraction of one dollar in its primary fiscal deficit will be linked to the $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . yet the often-deep fiscal plan , approved by the council for the 2017-2026 period , inevitably shaped the foundation of debt-restructuring debates – appears to ignore this circularity .
the first involves development assistance ; the second , strengthening of international institutions , such as the international central bank and the world development agency . eliminating this constraint might endanger the bank ’s triple gdp , but it would make it more effective . such an alliance requires cooperation not only from governments , but also from civil society . such scrutiny demands cooperation not only from governments , but also from civil society . i suggest that the world ’s open societies form an alliance with a dual objective : fostering both the development of open societies within individual countries , and shaping the global open society .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . accra – the planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states – has just been forced to withdraw from the us federal title x ’s family-planning program , supporting lower-income women . accra , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to retreat from the us federal title x family-planning program , which supports lower-income women .
employment policies , for example , have done little to reduce powerful regional imbalances and discrimination within the regions that have persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after the war in the 1990s . in both kosovo and bosnia , job creation was thought to be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given such flaws , it is not surprising that employment policies ’ net effects are often very small relative to the magnitude of the problem . yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called horizontal inequalities .
upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values , such as freedom , democracy , and human rights as unruly values ; and , by working with countries that share such values , hoist a flag of “ proactive contributions to peace ” ; and by helping to promote peace and prosperity worldwide than ever before . prosperity is the very foundation of peace ; it is here where we are only now living in our history . japan will make even stronger efforts to fight poverty , which also serve as a hotbed of violence and offers opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance for all of the world ’s peoples . we will step up aid to developing countries and steer the world toward further prosperity . we will engrave in our hearts this past , when japan abandoned itself as a challenger to the international order .
in saudi arabia , shia are at the center of those welcoming democratic change and participation . in saudi arabia , shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participation . though they comprise only 20 % of the saudi population , they comprise a majority of -75 % – the oil-rich region ’s population . in saudi arabia , shia are at the center of those welcoming democratic change and participation . this systematic shia neutering in saudi arabia is legitimised by the wahhabi religious establishment , and has backed down by numerous fatwas denouncing them as heresy .
by pooling resources , the fund has created economies of scale for life-saving products like anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs . replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost , because of the sheer number of lives it will help to save . in the process , aids deaths have fallen by 50 % from its peak , and malaria deaths have declined by about 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now the fund has $ 14 billion in new financing to continue this work . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new financing to continue this work .
depression can be cured , but only by dispensing with the patient with a positive vision of the future . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest are lashing out at the hands of politics . the right-centrist parties – the union of the right forces and yabloko – do have such a vision , and the people know it . this , in turn , is a sort of political depression ; it is a part of the world ’s poorest people . the higher the level of education , it appears , is lower voter participation : among those who never vote , the share of university-educated people is twice that of men without higher education .
only the explicit , up-front endorsement of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international support that military action – except clear self-defense – demands . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not , especially on this late stage , alter a fundamental perception of this kind of intervention , both inside and outside the arab world . this latest point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . this applies to the actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances like nato . but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by pointing out that women who had been shorter and first given birth when younger had more children . that left 95 % of variation to explain the effects of culture and individual decision-making . but genes are only one part of a multitude of factors affecting height and age at first birth . when we estimated how unequal across individuals could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . personal decision-making , nutrition , income levels , educational attainment , and religious affiliations all entered a mix .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect europe ’s leaders to step under threat , just as many of its unifying symbols may be . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions per year . ) in 2011 , more than 60,000 people have searched for its help – far more so than can expect a reasoned choice . unlike the brussels-based europe , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions annually . )
as safety expert sarah chayes argues in against corruption , the volume of essays that the british government will publicize to accompany the summit , corruption today is structured practice . in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may seem to be serving vital purposes . leaders inevitably need to contend with difficult tradeoffs . one deploys soldiers to combat terrorism ; another provides critical supplies of energy or access to raw materials . to identify the best approach within each particular case , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data .
after all , they are distinct methods for forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt . ultimately , they are divergent methods for forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt . they can be considered alternative forms of taxation , albeit implicit , rather than explicit . they can be considered alternative forms of taxation , albeit implicit , rather than explicit . voluntarily or not , some may seek recourse to inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic savings to finance the state and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) – or eventually to outright debt restructurings .
after the terrorist attacks of september 2001 , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called a vision thing . sometimes , leaders seem to think that vision can address most of their problems , but flawed visions of – or overly ambitious – vision can do no harm . when pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he responded , “ it ’s just not me . ” george h.w. bush was faulted to this ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called a vision thing .
trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of us states like california , which has embraced an initiative to spur climate-minded technological innovations . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing away from their us climate commitments . in the us , wind power costs have fallen by two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale renewable-energy costs have declined by up to 85 % . moreover , according to a recent study by america ’s department of energy , the number of jobs in wind and solar industries has risen by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . and the private sector has come around to view renewables as a potentially lucrative business .
but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in both the financial sector and among local governments could undermine efforts to safeguard growth . moreover , if conditions within the euro zone continue to worsen , asia could become more deeply affected . already , spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a marked slowdown ; and india ’s ’s growth rate is expected to decline to around 6 % this year . china ’s potentially powerful domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers may help it to avoid a hard landing . it has already aggressively loosened monetary policy and may employ additional fiscal stimulus .
in the five years since japan reached that level , its economy has grown at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many are confident that its average annual growth rate over the next five years will drop well below 7 % . in south korea , growth has fallen to 4.8 % , on average . using the historical figures compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they indicate how other east asian countries have experienced a deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp peaked at around $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the 1990 ’s , or about $ 17,000 range of american dollar prices . in hong kong , for example , growth has fallen to 4.8 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . unlike the trump administration , obama , and his advisers have believed that there is much to be gained by acknowledging difficult political truths , even after pointing out to a radical shift in course . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama ’s ’s famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” is that it included the public ’s admission of the united states ’ past missteps throughout the region . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the last thing the ecb needs is german chancellor gerhard schroeder ’s political crony assuming mr. issing of its key post . giving large countries permanent seats on the executive board also makes it easier for their politicians to exercise control over the ecb through the appointments process . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet of a board in an open-door system than it is under its current arrangements . some of the best people serving the ecb , or who have served in the past , come from small countries . preventing small countries , like other large ones , from competing for specific vacant seats , reduces the executive board ’s potential competency .
so long as this internal divergence persists , europe ’s crisis can not be fully addressed , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign-debt and commercial banks . indeed , excessive wage deflation is likely to have negative effects on productivity . yet labor costs have risen much faster in the south , resulting in differential cost increases that can not be addressed through devaluation as long as the monetary union endures . skilled labor is likely to emigrate faster and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not exactly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility . against this backdrop , productivity growth whether through technical progress , resource allocation , or productive investment is as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint .
indeed , the key elements of modern british identity all seem to belong to england , rather than to the composite entity . former prime minister john major hailed the uk as a land of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beer , invincible green suburbs , dog lovers , and pools fillers , and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids bicycling to the holy communion through the morning fog of … ” that does not mean that no identity can be asserted . likewise , the established or state church of england is the church of england , created nearly 500 years ago , when king henry viii ruled that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . of course , this does not mean that no identity anywhere is asserted . former prime minister john major hailed the uk as a land of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beer , invincible green suburbs , dog mistresses , and pools fillers , and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids bicycling to the holy communion through the morning fog ’ … .
in america ’s view , reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe has pledged – thereby enabling japan ’s ’s ’s self-defense forces to aid allies under assault , and aid to america and other us allies in meeting their commitments to securing asia ’s peace – has been long overdue . increased military cooperation with the us is especially important now , given america ’s worries over many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness . that bold policy initiative – in the face of japan ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any heightened military exposure – has no doubt endearing abe to american diplomats and military strategists , as well as securing both open and sometimes tacit acquiescence from japan ’s asian neighbors . both abe and obama focus on creating a durable peace structure for everyone in asia , with abe vying for japan seeking to play a more active role in this regard and in supporting its nato allies . that stance makes the alliance far more equal than it has over the past six decades .
iran is at a pivotal moment in its history , and as the long lines of its citizens eager to cast their votes clearly demonstrated , iranians know it . the matter of occupying the presidency during this transition is certainly not inconsequential . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s ’s health problems are public knowledge . with khamenei having served as president before ascending to iran ’s top political and religious leadership positions , it is easy to see that conservative candidate raisi had he been elected could become khamenei ’s successor . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ not low . ”
the recent trilateral summit in china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place alongside the meetings that will take place at international gatherings like asean summits . furthermore , north korea ’s ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainties regarding its very future as a state , are fueling deep-seated anxiety among its neighbors . sadly , however , despite all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . but this lack of quick success does not mean that such efforts are futile . sadly , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have yet to produce a major breakthrough on the most sensitive security issues that divide them .
a seismic shift is at hand , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well be a tipping point . for over 20 years , this kind of mutually beneficial codependency has served the two countries well in compensating for their inherent saving imbalances , while appeasing their respective growth agendas . and , of course , hard-headed middle-class american consumers benefit disproportionately from chinese imports , walmart ’s effect – that enables them to stretch out their budgets amid unrelenting downward pressure on us jobs and real incomes . but here , too , the past should not be viewed as prologue . china has made a conscious strategic choice to alter its growth strategy .
ten-year us treasury bonds now yield a mere 2.5 % . ten-year us treasury bonds now yield a mere 2.5 % . ten-year us ten-year yield to 4 % would lower the value of such bonds substantially . with headline inflation exceeding 2 % and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by five-year five-year-forward inflation expectations ) , yields on ten-year us treasury bonds should be above 4 % . other long-term bond issues , both us government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer similar declines .
without that trust , credit will not flow and economic activity will erode . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness now goes beyond credit supply . as raising capital becomes both difficult and expensive , it deleverage to borrow less . falling employment lowers wage and payroll incomes . moreover , because financial institutions ’ asset holdings were bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages exacerbated their need to deleverage .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation around the world may have served its firms well , even as they impose large costs on others . has heart change been changed or merely a change of strategy ? today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be applied and abused to serve some of the same kinds of interests . or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms – the minimum required to justify a mega-trillion dollar bailouts ? have those who pushed deregulation ten years ago learned its lesson ?
to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption growth , reviving the recovery extends to other sectors . in short , the credibility that ireland has acquired through resolute fiscal policy and reform has helped restore confidence , facilitating a return to growth , and thus fiscal consolidation . this kind of growth has been driven by a wide range of factors . wage restraint and productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports .
because such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle and peer pressure is required . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of the eventual write-down do indeed add up to superior outcomes . a third component consists in the practice of suasion for bondholders to achieve maximum participation , acquisition of binding pre-commitments , and elimination of free riders . that is why , under this model , and despite initial pressure , bondholders ’ behavior could be considered truly voluntary . and , while ratings agencies might still regard vienna-type outcomes as a form of default , talmudic ’s sages show us demands for a more thoughtful classification .
every town has grocery shops , beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters to serve local communities . as a consequence , we end up doing lots of things and purchasing everything else from the rest of us . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange system ; money merely tracks the value of the gifts that we give to one another . this observation is as true of the individual as it is about the eu , whether the eu is a neighborhood , city , state , or province , or country . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of skills or product lines , and exchange them for the millions of other things that we have little clue about how to do or make .
the oil and gas pipelines are transport conduits , rather than actual employers . another consortium has begun to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia to turkey and the west . but these investments have brought no economic trickle down , to no avail . moreover , georgian rewards for handing out the strategic export route to the west over to the likes of azeri oil , not to us diplomatic insurance – that is , western , especially us worries about the safety of the gas pipeline . at the same time , people here survive on a few dollars per day .
even in hong kong , where share prices recently hit new highs , they are just 10 % above their peak in early 1994 . policymakers warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” that picture bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches , or to read in business newspapers around the world . in the same three year since then , prices in wall street and europe have been expanding at a rate of 60 % or more . japanese shares account for about half of their 1990 ’s prices .
strong central institutions , responsible for a directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . austerity should be eased , especially in fiscally stronger core economies , and substantial resources should be devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small and medium-size firms in over-indebted countries . germany ’s unwillingness to take the lead on such issues partly reflects the historical inhibitions that are always hard to overcome . national banking systems should become unified in order to separate private losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authority , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme forming the heart of europe ’s banking union . in the longer term , the single market should expand to services , with free-trade arrangements either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states .
in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn apart by internal and external wars , aims to become the world ’s second most powerful economy . china has much to show for itself in its recent history . just consider the country ’s massive internal access to education of its vast rural population , in contrast to its own “ democratic rival , ” india . china ’s insolent prosperity , even if it is far removed equally , china ’s ’s relative political stability , even as the regime ’s opening remains strictly constrained , is both undeniable and deserving of respect . china , which has just been glorified by martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the “ people ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s founding , ” constitutes one of the most exciting cases involving the nation ’s second most powerful economy nowadays .
perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort , capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in times of crisis . by enabling exchange-rate flexibility , such an approach would also enable the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that emerge in a currency union : undervaluation , which generates inflationary pressures , and overvaluation that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) . all told , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currencies from the outset , empowering scotland ’s national bank to set interest rates in accordance with domestic economic conditions . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the profits of central-bank operations that typically benefit the national treasury ) . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland could be minimized by issuing sterling debt , thereby protecting investors against additional devaluation risk .
government tolerance of bribery and racketeering has allowed opponents to say that the “ mafia ” has been grabbing gains in economic change . while the transition has been bound to be painful , russia ’s epidemic of corruption has done more political damage than the economic side effects of reform . corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world , and there is no alternative to corruption . value-subtracting heavy industries have shrunk , services have expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russia ’s output . government , and hence economic reform , pays for this neglect at the polls .
though he does not sacrifice important moral doctrines to power , koštunica is not the un-assuming lawyer he once was . he crams his party with mediocrities , selects mostly poor advisers and does not listen to scarce good ones . he crams his party with mediocrities , selects mostly poor advisers , not to listen to scarce good ones . his image as right-of-center , democrat conceals a reactionary who wants serbia to restore its pre-wwii monarchy and the orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life . many people voted for him through default , both now and when he defeated miloševic in 2000 .
but if the yellow vests allow passionate hate to prevail over genuine fraternity and choose wrecking over reforming , they will incite only chaos , not improvements , to the lives of a humble , vulnerable . the yellow vests must decide : a democratic re-invention , or an updated version of the national socialist leagues ; a willingness to correct ; or an urge to destroy it . they will allow themselves to be intoxicated by the sight of luminaries and experts in la france d’en haut ( an elite france ) seeming to consume from its hands and hang onto its every word . or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure of seeing them happen on tv . the yellow vests must choose : a democratic re-invention , or an updated version of the national socialist leagues ; a willingness to correct , or an urge to destroy .
what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failure in iran ? a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate in stark terms : “ it ’s as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with their foreign partners . ” others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . according to the iranian-turkish business council ’s vice president , “ it ’s extraordinarily complicated to do business in iran . ” still others blame iran ’s “ invisible hand , ” ” ” ” ” supposed to fear that iran and turkey might become too powerful .
essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are also dramatically less available and proportionally more expensive to people in low - and middle-income countries than they are to those in the rich world . moreover , we must invest in research and development for low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that are tailored to low-resource environments . this disparity has prompted the medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis a “ social justice issue ” of our time . diabetes is not unique among ncds ; it is a problem that can be found . smart collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to generate effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions .
every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a list of earlier recommendations and their implementation status . south orange , new jersey – if an international organization has made recommendations regarding how to improve a country ’s economy , and the country has adopted fewer than half that , an organization might seem like a failure . but an international organization should be judged on the basis of the quality of the information and advice that it provides , not by whether governments will listen . indeed , measuring its success only on the basis of compliance ignores its purposes : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by informing officials about its costs and benefits . in its 2010 survey of the united nations , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme .
whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he outlined has “ the worst deal ever . ” most important , he would need to win the north korean regime , at least , to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal and agree to a process for continued dialogue , possibly culminating in yet another summit talks . likewise , he must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feel ignored or undermined . then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet . moreover , he will have to keep all alternatives on the table , even as military options become less tenable under inter-korean dialogue .
germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push for european-level reform , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could prove to be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for several years to come . another way of viewing the german electoral outcome , then , is as an opportunity for fresh start . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push for european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . an exit to the cdu/csu “ grand coalition ” could mean ending political stagnation not only in germany , but on the european level .
the timing could not have been worse , at least in the short run . following the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler general augusto pinochet – who had suddenly fallen dead – the army ’s sullionel jospin agreed to yet another national election . eliminating fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that provided a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to assert military control over the country . last year , nigeria celebrated a notable escape from the country ’s dictatorship . it would have lasted six long years , under rapacious military rule , before nigeria had won another chance at democracy .
they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . to reduce maternal mortality , for example , it is insufficient to provide antenatal attention , secure delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care . such barriers are especially high for lgbtqi individuals , those with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , rural women , and adolescents . and they must design uhc programs accordingly .
to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy needs to support a robust defense policy . likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made on the ground , in disregard for the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that modernizing armed forces are intrinsically linked to national development . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity raises its stake in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access or control , natural resources . so it emphasizes the need to strengthen its domestic defense industries .
a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , appeals to its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies . but the real promise of both china and india lies in its future . yao ming , a china star of the national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become another michael jordan , and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics . moreover , the transnational links in information industries are close , as western high-tech companies increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai have increasingly taken advantage of real-time services . big expatriate communities in the us comprise america ’s attractiveness to its own culture , appeals to its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to suspend its full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians have fought and died for in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that cunning , hard power , and intimidation can win western acceptance in his subjugation of ukraine and annexation of crimea . ukraine may now be passing only through the eye of the storm . delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , has instead merely whetted putin ’s appetite . europe can not afford to take the lead on this front . its hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russia ’s gas supplies during the winter will cause them to forget about their allies ’ security interests – a classic divide-and-rule strategy that has served chile well .
where feasible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of agriculture , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional bodies , such as scotland ’s parliament , welsh , and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local authorities . to this end , it is critical to re-frame the constitution to include regional interests , recognizing that the uk is a multinational state . for example , we should ask whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or if certain powers and finance should be decentralized to regions and nations . such radical change – and , to match the scale of the crisis – must become radical – requires nationwide discussions , possibly taking place through the peoples ’ constitutional convention . that convention should start by looking at brexit ’s impact on regions .
the prospect of eu membership has been the most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies . while the majority of its citizens do not realize this , the eu serves as an inspiring example . as a result , the us is no longer in a position to set the world ’s agenda . the eu can not possibly take the lead with the us as a world leader . but it can set an example , both within and outside its own borders .
this is not to say that the athletic glory of substitutes for military glory . like his ancient soviet masters , he conflates athletic glory with military glory . that is why he has personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth considering that russia has won its most medals . to be sure , putin views the olympics – and , specifically , the medals – to be highly consequential . ( it has been russia ’s act during the sochi olympics , which forms the heart of the doping scandal . )
it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization , with its trajectories far more impressive than that of any north korean rocket . but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a shockingly difficult time telling its trading community not to do business with someone , particularly an historic friend and ally . china ’s rise is one of the most widely studied development in the us . chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to take part in transnational sanctions is often attributed to their belief in judging action by whether or not they work . perhaps a true pragmatism on display in north korea ’s case is a reluctance to rein in the trading community in an era of slower growth and internal fixation .
washington , dc – a sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , producing a wide range of contrasting explanations . regardless of the reason for a price drop – probably to be found in some combination of such factors – the consequences are just the same . still others are focusing on the expansion of america ’s ’s oil and gas production . some attribute the windfall to the decline in global growth expectations . some attribute the fall largely to a decline in global growth expectations .
with the american economy now recovering strongly , the price of oil should stay high , or even rise further , for the foreseeable future . at around $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain high , even as a soft global economy means that the world ’s demand is low . even with improved security , it will take five years to bring iraqi oil to a full stream . the world ’s oil situation is especially intriguing . a previously fashionable view that an american seizure of iraqi oil resources would break opec and send the price of plummeting oil turned out to be nonsense .
as with its predecessor , the omt program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , of the european union ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has little precedent ; and it involves the back-door fiscal transfers that left the ecb heavily exposed to the political backlash – witness the german press ’s visceral reaction to ecb president mario draghi ’s declaration . the omt program will create credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred over the past three years . after all , if markets were indeed to believe that the ecb would refuse to backstop the errant governments , investors would run out of participating countries at the outset that conditionality had not been met . but thomas also fits well with a massive body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , policymakers must target extinguishing fire rather than bargaining over who owns the water and what its cost should be . the omt program will create credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of a eurozone that has occurred over the past three years .
so far , the only american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing social security and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans , as well as a heavier debt burden on future generations . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich , and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised constructive reform ideas . premium support can lower medicare ’s spending significantly , because it sets a framework for more efficiency-driven spending , competitive , and career-related innovation . for starters , bipartisan premium support proposals , with seniors receiving subsidies to purchase private health insurance , should be implemented . to allow individuals to prepare to cover related deductibles and copayments , health-insurance accounts – funds that are not subject to deposit income – and can be used tax-free at all times to cover qualified medical expenses – should be expanded and amplified .
silvio berlusconi , who becomes the european union ’s president on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets have paid off big ones . in the 1960 ’s , he was the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city where people were walking to work , would become a modern american-style metropolises surrounded by american-style suburbs . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni has come to understand that an italian state ’s monopoly of tv would not survive and jump-started what has become italy ’s main privately owned media group . thus , his fortunes began in real-estate development . but one does not win in tv and real estate businesses without the right political links .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for public spending – has long been a hallmark of chinese economic policymaking . for its part , the people ’s ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in prudent monetary loosening , which involves freeing up more funding for lending by banks that allocate some of their overall loan portfolios to small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . likewise , through its “ pledged additional lending ” program , the pboc has begun lending directly to banks that have pledged to use funding for social-housing construction projects . but , with funding costs for firms trending , this is finally starting to change . for its part , the state council , china ’s cabinet , has made lowering funding costs for firms , particularly small and medium-size companies ( smes ) , a top priority .
russia ’s democrats , with their huge stake in a peaceful future , remain adamant that extending alliance membership to central europe will insulate their countries from europe , cement russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and , by appearing to threaten russia , provide a rallying point for reconstructing russia ’s military might . but nato enlargement is not likely to make russia ’s foreign policy any more peaceful than ever . moreover , russia today is far too weak to threaten them , as the russian army ’s calamitous misadventure in chechnya illustrates . one day , russia will emerge stronger ; if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage a revival of imperial foreign policy then , this would be a powerful argument in favor of doing so . countries with the greatest cause of concern for russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not being offered nato membership .
it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in the ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel can only depend on its comparative merits in the eyes of the cynical , realistic actors that judge it solely on the basis of its own national interest . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on holocaust feelings guilt to influence major powers . israel ’s leaders seem to be intent on gaining time both tactically , by resisting the soft pressures of us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china are playing an increasingly important role . israel may be european “ “ “ “ “ “ “ of europe ” , ” and its principal ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders need to start thinking again about how their country can flourish in a post-western world . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on the emotions of holocaust guilt to influence its major powers .
the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” ” typically come later , if and when the us president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do n’t trump reality . the audience is now telling that losing tax revenues and widening the budget deficit was the plan all along . it can not find enough spending cuts ( the magic asterisk has disappeared up to the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; gdp acceleration is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario having vanished ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit in a laffer hat ) . that trick never operates either . the performer explains that the deficit is all congressional fault lines for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to lift the us budget deficit , because “ congress can not spend money it wo n’t have . ”
in one of the darkest hours of the roman empire 's demise , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism . at the same time , however , there is a pressing need to mobilize europe 's public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is europe 's flag . march 21 is the first day of this spring , and we would like to believe that the upcoming european elections herald a new spring for the european project . march 21 , too , is the anniversary of benedict ’s death , the patron of europe . for this reason , in january , one of us launched the idea that , beginning on march 21 , we are depicting the flag on homes , factories , and offices .
in the united states , right-wing extremists have been conducting far more attacks than the islamists . the assault in christchurch was directly inspired by a 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of which i am one of the few fortunate survivors . this fits into a wider trend , in which attacks by perpetrators of muslim backgrounds are immediately categorized as the “ act of terror ” and address in a well-resourced and systemic affairs , whereas violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies are treated like “ isolated incidents . ” in the united states , right-wing extremists have conducted far more attacks than the islamists did . but there is nothing isolated about such incidents as this approach .
indisputably the strongest and most dependable of the eu ’s 28 member countries , it lacks a vision for which beleaguered europe should be headed . after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , by now relocated from bonn to berlin , contented itself once again with a lower european profile . that modest and unassuming role belongs to a strong eu in the past , even though german power has remained aligned with imagination . the fruit of the franco-german partnership has included europe ’s single currency . the intellectual leadership , provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project , is a fading memory , because germany has so far generate a comparably robust strategy to revive eu prospects and popularity .
while the rest of the world struggles to raise saving , china , with its saving rate above 40 % , is struggling to get its people to consume more . in fact , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate consumption . china has been engaged in what might be called the vendor finance , ” ” ” providing money that helps to fund america ’s vast fiscal and trade deficits , enabling americans to purchase more goods than they sell . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country is helped by america ’s war on iraq , along with a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people , while enormous needs at home imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment .
selling the five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is deemed to be a smart form of marketing , but one paid to the ceo of a society that thrives on lending to the poor seems misplaced , if not immoral . yet pmfis have been successful in meeting a genuine need . after all , both activities are financed by investors seeking returns on their capital and motivated more through profits rather than compassion . yet pmfis have been able to succeed in meeting a genuine need . the high pay earned by a cosmetics or a soft-drink manufacturer attracts little attention ; one paid to a company ’s ceo , who thrives on lending to the poor appears misplaced , if not immoral .
listening to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason to lose manufacturing jobs in the united states . that process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse effects on both the quantity and quality of employment have raised serious concerns . berkeley , advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or out-performing humans in a fast-growing range of tasks , including some requiring elaborate cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that the possible technological displacement of us workers is “ not even on [ the administration ’s ] radar screen . ” among economists , however , the consensus view is that roughly 80 % of us manufacturing job losses over the past three decades were a result of labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade approaching a distant second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan was seemingly capable of doing no wrong in the economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic region over a wide range of high-tech precision and cutting-edge industries in manufacturing of tradable goods . the secure bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed to be that mechanization , computerization , and robotization will continue . and they saw an economy growing much faster than the north atlantic economies when it possessed the same level of absolute and relative economy-wide productivity levels . they also saw an economy that , since reconstruction began after world war ii , had vastly outperformed europe ’s economies ’ expected growth .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the current palestinian-israeli war is really two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” with the palestinian people ’s “ only ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased by only a few of 144 settlements , and more than 7,000 settlers in gaza strip alone , in the 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished land already suffering one of the world ’s highest territories . conversely , israel is also wrestling with two wars : a mere war to defend its right to exist ; an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine ” ; and a palestinian people ’s “ simply ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . israeli state ’s support for expanded settlements is substantial . there are some 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods stretching beyond the pre-1967 borders of the ancient split jerusalem .
the market ’s reaction has been to send spanish government bond rates to an even higher level . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive during the past year or so . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within europe continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy , are suffering from a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are growing more visible . like aging magicians , they continue to attempt tricks that have been used to impress , but that fail to deliver results – or , worse , prove counterproductive – prove counterproductive . but they have lost touch with each other .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historic tension , maintaining a stable security balance will not be easy . but there are levers where it can help . in the 1990s , when america ’s president bill clinton ’s administration debated how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a policy of containment . instead , clinton opted for a policy that might be termed “ integrate and insure . ” clinton rejected that advice : it would be impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would ensure future hostility with china .
trump , for example , has undoubtedly succeeded in convincing some americans to see themselves as part of something like a white identity movement . the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” has always been misleading . but that identity – and how its adherents will frame their own interests – could change again . interests and identities are dynamically forming as politicians make representation and citizens respond . farage has not brought about brexit all by himself .
while the size of many r & d organizations is bound to decline with such reforms , the complexities of managing and maximizing the impact of this outside web of relationships will demand new skills and capabilities over and above those of a excellent science . developing and rewarding employees who possess such skills will be an additional but welcome , challenge . these will include not only prescription pharmaceuticals , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and cutting-edge technologies that support personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ” the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional products and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering a wide range of health-care solutions . they will ease interactions across their networks to spur the development of innovation ecosystems .
so , unlike the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old models with superior ones , but by expanding its models ’ library , with each shedding light on another social contingency . the point is not to reach a consensus about which model is right , ” as romer puts it , but to figure out which model applies best in a given setting . the social world is different from that of the physical world , because it is man-made , and hence almost infinitely malleable . economics is not the kind of science in which there might ever have been one true model that works best in all contexts . and it will always remain artifice rather than science , especially at a time when the choice has to be made in real time .
as jagdish bhagwati , and arvind panagariya have pointed out , over-labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that india ’s government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . india ’s legal protections for workers in india ’s ’s ’s ’s formal sector exceed those of most developed countries , as well as china , with mandated rising labor requirements . equally important , india ’s laid-off workers – in particular , young people – need opportunities to upgrade its skills continuously . today , the agricultural sector accounts for just one-third of overall employment in china , compared to one-half in india . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market , centered on easing outdated , complicated employment laws .
taken together , this holistic approach is something new for china . brazil , for example , has been promoting a “ investment partnership program ” program ” to coordinate investment in the finance and transportation infrastructure sectors . equally important , the policy also extends the availability of chinese financing , credits , and insurance to investors . despite considerable political uncertainties in a wide range of countries in latin america , governments in the region appear keen to fulfill china ’s reform efforts with inherent change . the new policies explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local businesses in sectors such as logistics , electricity , and information systems , thereby fostering interactions among business , community , and government leaders .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given accelerated growth in china ’s service sector – one of the key building blocks of consumer-led rebalancing . but the key word here is , after all , “ eventually . ” it is far too early to expect important shifts in major sources of aggregate demand . for now , it is far more important to examine trends in potential determinants of chinese consumption . from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given accelerated growth in china ’s service sector – one of the key building blocks of the consumer-led rebalancing .
europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the opposite direction . many europeans view free trade as an opportunity , rather than a job threat ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for more protectionism . to be sure , the us presidency grants trump substantial power to shape us trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility that he will pursue protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based american support for a return to closed borders . likewise , european multinationals have big stakes in the chinese economy , with eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now accounting for nearly double america ’s .
at a time when he took the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin to the tune of $ 19 million . manafort has also offered to brief deripaska about what was happening in trump ’s campaign . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal with the people whom displeased it . deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , had previously maintained a $ 10 million annual contract with manafort . at a time when he took the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin ’s administration , to the tune of $ 19 million .
egyptians and tunisians are right to feel proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , as someone headed for a peaceful revolution , i am hopeful that pride is tempered by pragmatism , for regime change is only a first step in the determination of democracy promotion by the rule of law . indeed , as my country , ukraine , for example , is now demonstrating , following the revolutionary euphoria fades and normality returns , democratic revolutions may be betrayed and reversed . the first of ukraine ’s lessons for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that the elections make no democracy make . kyiv – from argentina to argentina – i watch the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and emulation .
that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , multimodal solutions ( iris , fingerprints , and face ) affecting more than one billion indians worldwide . protecting against theft is obvious : what use is a telephone , a car , or a ticket that works only for its legitimate homeowner ? above all , biometrics can protect against the theft of our identity on its own . increasingly , we are using our fingerprints , or our face to unlock our smartphones , pay for purchases , and board airplanes . nandan nilekani , the chairman of infosys , who has abandoned his job to create a system known as aadhaar , credits it with saving india ’s government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicating and fake identity in government recipient lists .
the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of an economic meltdown are likely to be felt in the developing world for a long time to come . many of the problems that have spurred the london summit remain real . anxiety levels may have come down , in board rooms , and in stock markets , but the daily drama for survival continues . the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of an economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world for a long time to come . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity have helped calm nerves worldwide .
roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comical of that process , and we have spoken out about the powers that may be able to rise to the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . were we observing the look of someone with the intimate knowledge of catastrophes yet again ? the first is the sovereign people who poured into the streets of every large city in a country with the knowledge that , in terms of overall votes , is they , not trump , who won an election . or was she only the most beautiful girl in france , the one avid adolescent asked to dance , and then held on tightly ? the world is now collectively writing a new novel , with the us .
and it ’s not as though congressional republicans think that they owe enough to trump ’s simpson to swing a single vote in either echo chambers of the us legislature . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave with high-trust positions and acclaim as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation truly lousy incentives . perhaps simpson has had a change of heart . perhaps he has traveled his own road to damascus , come face-to-face with what he has done and done , repented , and wanted to correct some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects . obama officials reassured me that simpson had , indeed , had a change of heart ; that he was a smart man with a sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he may sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( despite being unable to sway actual legislators ) ; and that he would be a genuine asset to the commission ’s substantive work .
the oecd average stands at about 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , are producing fewer than 1.4 children per woman . what demographers call the overall fertility rate is the average number of live births per woman above her lifetime . in the long run , populations are said to be stable if the tfr ’s tfr is at an replacement pace that ranks slightly above 2.3 for the world as a whole and a bit lower , at 2.1 , for the developed world , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . nevertheless , the largest tfr declines in recent years have been in developing countries . the tfr for most developed countries now stands well below replacement levels .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation will inevitably be bad for business , there are actually three important channels , through which regulation can benefit the economy . one is the market-creating and market-increasing roles that have been illustrated by the standard of gsm . by 2004 , more than one billion subscribers were left to gsm services worldwide . one is the market-creating and market-increasing roles illustrated by the gsm of the standard of gsm . the global reach of regulation implied enormous economies of scale in handsets and network hardware production , which is why prices have fallen fast , and interoperability between networks and across countries has been far easier to reach .
laguna beach – when i consider the outlook for the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the extent to which the world has been collectively putting a tremendous bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; policy mistakes ; and prevention of market crashes . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they fall far short of certain – and bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . another , more uncertain , assumption underpinning a bet on more inclusive growth is that both the eurozone and japan are about to escape the mire of low growth and avoiding deflation that , by impelling households and companies to shelve purchasing decision-making , would undermine already weak economic performance . likewise , it predicts china ’s annual gdp growth rate to stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thus enabling the risks posed by pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to continue to rectify , even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to shift away from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . the first component of bets – more inclusive global growth – anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states with a 3 % growth rate this year bolstered robust wage growth .
the two parties allowed an independent judiciary to lapse , freeing the presidency from a mighty form of oversight , much to trump ’s advantage a generation later . most americans believed that impeachment was a mistake . in the end , the republicans agreed with the democrats that held responsible for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent attorney whose investigations of clinton ’s ’s ’s real-estate dealings years earlier led him to lewinsky . the republicans ultimately agreed with the democrats that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent attorney whose investigations of clinton ’s real-estate dealings years ultimately led him to lewinsky . most americans believed that impeachment was a mistake .
though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the most part , they have not lost sight of the benefits of eu membership . most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) at the forefront of the brexit campaign . most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) to enter into the brexit campaign . though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the most part , they have not lost sight of the benefits of eu membership . to be sure , establishment leaders have long been trying to rescue their own skins by ramping up criticism for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . brazil , touted in 2010 , as its emerging aid player , is now in an economic and political crisis , as it is south africa . weakening developing-economy incomes further is a global demand slowdown and a commodities crash that , as nobel laureate angus deaton demonstrated , was catastrophic for much of the developing world . compounding these challenges , new financial regulations in advanced countries are being compounded by new financial regulations in the developing world . to cap it all , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by major economies are fueling instability .
for its part , iran appears relatively stable , at least compared to its neighbors . though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear breach , and the us government is insisting that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and acrimonious bouts of instability are raising serious questions about its future . while north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear arsenal is far smaller , persistent doubts over the regime ’s sustainability are making matters a matter of grave concern . pakistan has a major nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionist jihad that has previously attacked military bases suspected of housing nuclear assets . in case of a regime ’s collapse – a distinct possibility – it would be hard to avoid diversion of its assets or even using its weapons .
those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any us attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , by using access to dollar clearing systems as a us foreign-policy tool – will be countered by coordinated us action . as for climate action , the election of a man who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax designed to harm american enterprise is obviously bad news . but this was not the us-iran treaty ; it was negotiated by the six leading powers and endorsed by the united nations . for the uk , in particular , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with america ’s foreign policy in ways that some devotees of the us “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . but global momentum to address climate change may and should be sustained .
after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalating regional conflicts . ironically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by the conservatives and hardliners alike , actually fits in the region better than the current one . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments hew more closely to a reform-oriented path , it should be obvious to all that diplomatic work with respect to iran is far from complete . the most likely scenario , of course , is a mix of both dynamics . this would make re-alignments of reform-oriented leadership in iran exceedingly difficult .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-president , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . the implicit pact between banks and savers broke out in late 2015 , when four troubled local banks bailed out , and shareholders took a hit . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian banks and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb the npls became perceived as unnecessary . protracted recession and economic malaise have dented individual savings rates , while banks no longer have the resources to offer a peaceful alternative to many retail investors whose trust was badly eroded . ten years later , italy is no longer envisioned land of prosperous banks and happy savers .
many poles are wary of the church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy and are allergic to its aggressive presence in polish politics . kwasniewski ’s strategy of seduction has appealed to large numbers of young and middle-class youth , but much of all to peasant governments , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s rising economy . thus , the person who spoke volumes about the future rode to power saddled with the past vote . it is a sad paradox , indeed , that for many former communists , in opposing the church , pose as defenders of the liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal . this correlation will dog kwasniewski ’s presidency .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist the smallholders , but the obstacles remain so far . if donor governments really want the results , they should take the money out of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two locations , the most reasonable being the world bank in the washington community and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these agencies would then account for a few billion dollars worth of care . “ donor partnerships ” can become an expensive end in itself simply delaying real action . perhaps the main risk is that “ aids bureaucracies ” now trip over each other to try to get their hands to the tune of $ 20 billion in order to take a large share of it through meetings , expert consultations , over-heads , news , and more meetings .
after all , the brics ’ economies are probably the single most important source of future global growth . at the new delhi summit , the brics ’ leaders will discuss creating joint institutions , notably the common development bank , which can help to mobilize savings among countries . they represent more than one-quarter of the earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . currently , the brics countries represent a loose , informal bloc . the brics , in fact , may also be dubbed the r-5 , following its members ’ currencies – the true , ruble , renminbi , and rand .
a key difference in the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( more than 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rate ) . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fearing job competition – sentiment that is fueling populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties throughout europe . as it stands , the british , like their counterparts elsewhere in europe , feel over-taxed to spoil public services , angry over the past five years that their incomes have plummeted . on the contrary , he must change the conversation to reassure voters that their economic future is bright . as it stands , the british , like their counterparts elsewhere in europe , feel over-taxed to spoil public services constantly , fueling growing real incomes .
this is not to say that the obama administration has failed to try to boost employment . it is subject to what milton friedman has called the “ long and variable variable . ” others , like the united states , have not done , and so unemployment remains at around 10 % . thus , policies to boost employment by the end of july , say , this calendar year , needed to lay the groundwork for about a year or two ago , to have the time to achieve their full effect . some countries , for example , – including china – did , indeed , implement such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing benefits .
imposing trade defenses against such goods , even when legally warranted , is likely to generate problems for globalized european companies . for more advanced goods , the eu has added value added ( if intangible parts of the productive process are in europe ) to be fairly high . but , though the actions it has worked are probably not directed at anti-competitive business practices . sectors with higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example – have far higher r & d costs than the shoe sector does , meaning that manufacturing such goods on assembly lines in low - and middle-income countries are probably not extremely costly when compared to research and development and other intangible costs . many argue that these problems are a price to pay for firms either not to engage in anti-competitive behavior or to receive trade-distorting subsidies .
after all , us corporations have no conscience ; it is only the conscience of those running the us corporation ; and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to profits . america ’s legal system ensures that us firms that produce a defective , and unsafe , unsafe , product – that is , held liable for the consequences . america ’s legal system ensures that us firms that produce a defective , and unsafe , unsafe , product – that is , held liable for the consequences . similarly , environmental laws make firms accountable for their toxic wastes , with many countries – including the us – enshrined in the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , companies need to pay for the damage they cause . motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult .
the case for action on a massive scale to fight climate change has been made in europe and even in china . why , then , has there been so little debate in the us ? is it because those who oppose such a debate reject the science of climate change ? or do they deny science , because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ? we need not look far from such a mission .
the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important because it includes , among other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and power sharing among eu institutions , which must be held firmly before the union can admit to new members . once again , iranian voters are poised to vote yes or not on the treaty of nice . enlargement is the single most important item on europe ’s agenda . once again , what has been forgotten is that the treaty itself is all about it ? the enlargement is the single most important item on europe ’s agenda .
at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies were starting to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose the underlying causes of asian poverty and explain why its poverty had appeared to be ineradicable . the key point here is not only that economists had gotten so badly wrong , but that almost nobody had things right . with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) from hindsight , it seems obvious that the growth patterns that emerged over the past half-century had been little understood and rarely ( if ever ) had been predicted by economists . after beggaring their adherents , such policies are now entirely discredited . simultaneous among economists and policymakers that favored import substitution policies then pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey .
but wade postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and , later , by presidential decree , to june 2007 . a month before the election , only 64 % of the electorate that registered had received their voting cards . two weeks ago , there were nearly daily debates about the possibility of a presidential election being shelved indefinitely . a presidential election now seems to be on track ? on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” demonstration by the opposition party of opposition parties was brutally repressed by the police and three presidential contenders for the day .
princeton , the nba – the crossroads of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . in october , james watson , sharing the nobel prize in 1962 for her description of dna ’s structures , was in london to promote his memoir , to avoid boring people , and to other lessons from life in science . now , one of our most eminent scientists , our time has blundered far more clumsily to the same minefield , with predictable results . in october , james watson , sharing the nobel prize in 1962 for his description of dna ’s structure , was in london to promote his memoir , to avoid boring people , and to other lessons from life in science . now , one of the most eminent scientists of our time , has blundered far more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results .
kenyan presidents , on the other hand , have traveled to china only six times over the same period , most recently , in may 2017 . mugabe ’s first visit to china occurred in 1980 , only six months after independence ; he made 13 more during his tenure , and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s rule . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . state visits in the us were more uneven , at best . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their press visits for trade and military cooperation , and presumably engaged directly with private chinese firms .
geneva – the world ’s ’s ’s ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . at the end of 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees have been experiencing an estimated 11.6 million refugees experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : they have been away from their homes for more than five years , and they have no “ immediate outlook ” ” of return . but , for young refugees to miss out on an education , a crisis can also be tracked down by an irreversible metric : the passage of time . school-age children form a large share of the world ’s displaced population . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) has a responsibility to protect , roughly half come under the age of 18 , implying that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose out in the future as well .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stem the stock market bubble in the late 1990 ’s ; and that he should have done more to stem the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . here , greenspan holds his ground , and the pleads is not guilty . but how serious are such policy-policy crimes to which greenspan is now in charge ? against them , you must establish what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden glove ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years in the fed . in my view , they are misdemeanors .
those worthy causes include fighting jihadist decapitators , rescuing women and girls enslaved by boko haram , advocating a middle east ’s imperiled christian and arab democrats , and , of course , striving for a mere peace between the israelis and the palestinians . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing less than a sinister caricature of anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . to good-faith activists who might take place in duplicitous movements , i would say only that there are too many noble causes in need of assistance to allow oneself to be enlisted at questionable levels . and it is better to know that history , if we wish to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes . it is a campaign , whose instigators have no purpose but to discriminate against , de-legitimize , and vilify israel , which in their thinking has never stopped wearing its yellow star .
more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka has discovered a way to trick complex adult cells in mice into regressing to their immature state , forming stem cell lines . earlier this , stem cells – which can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaged tissue – could be brought about only from early-stage embryos , a practice that has fueled ethical controversy . in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that nearly any cell in the body includes the complete dna code has enabled it to develop a tadpole by cloning the adult frog . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka , yamanaka , have discovered a way to trick complex adult cells in mice into regressing to their immature state , forming stem cell lines . it is too soon to discount genetics , however , because the science of “ epigenetics ” – the study of turning genes on and off , thereby altering how a cell develops without altering the genetic code – is gaining traction .
the crisis in the mediterranean may not be piecemeal . but we may not wait until the root causes of displacement – as well as civil war – are addressed . the financial costs of patrolling its waters , and rescuing those adrift , are exorbitant . the claims could be prioritized and processed regularly , and refugees could arrive in europe healthy , ready to work or study . the loss of lives is inexcusable .
to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address diverse structural challenges , and develop its economy in accordance with its comparative advantages . according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 amounted to $ 6,725 in 1990 , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . that is roughly the same gap that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1975 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 , four economies that also rank among the 13 successful economies studied by the us growth commission . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s ’s ’s ’s average annual growth rate soared to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied the income gap between america ’s four nies and america allowed nies to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % -9.2 % over 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should turn out to a similar 8 % for 2008-2028 .
unfortunately , like so many other international treaties , the united nations convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknown , un-championed , and unmet . in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went further , committing themselves to “ a major reduction in our current rates of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . the signatories agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and protecting their habitats , and using biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . that neglect is a human tragedy ; it is a part of the world ’s poorest countries . for a very low cash-outlay – and perhaps none at all on its balance – we have been able to conserve nature , thereby protecting the foundations of our own lives and livelihoods .
in netanyahu ’s view , resolving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that existential threat that paving the way for the creation of a palestinian state . netanyahu also recognizes that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . it is because netanyahu is driven by an almost messianic determination to stop iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that he might be amenable to a fundamental change in his standing in palestine , provided obama has made visible headway in his drive to halt iran ’s nuclear program . like john kerry , the chairman of the american senate ’s council of foreign affairs , put it , “ this peace process is not a one way of the street ” in which the onus is placed exclusively on israel . it remains to be seen whether abysmally dysfunctional the arab world and the powerful non-state agents in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , will react the way obama expects .
we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january . but there was a surprise : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . just as imf economists had forecast , most ( 66 % ) of those who responded to this question in moscow thought that it was unfair . so we chose last year to determine whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today , or whether , given a revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets have become more adverse . we administered the identical questionnaire in our two cities in 2015 .
like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out southern “ emerging ” economies . in the latter version , interest rates converge and default risk is nil , for it with the ecb ’s backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the us , europe becomes a “ local currency . ” the prognoses for each case are starkly different . like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out southern “ emerging ” economies . in the latter version , interest rates converge and default risk is nil , for , say , bank runs , de-leveraging , and default : a common currency is at odds with member countries ’ needs .
during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s district and circuit courts had been filled down to its lowest point in 50 years . thus , republicans have a good chance of forming a conservative majority for the nine-member supreme court , which may last for decades , particularly if they win the presidency again in 2020 . that majority can erode democratic controls , such as the campaign-finance limits that were dealt a destructive blow to the citizens ’ decisions in 2010 . republican obstructionism in the senate also imposed other levels of the federal judiciary at risk . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s district and circuit courts were filled to its lowest point in 50 years .
lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail his rule . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are obviously less vulnerable to the type of populist rule that we ’ve seen in venezuela and bolivia . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s sovereign-debt crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america . but they are unlikely to derail his rule .
a new german government will emerge , the european parliament elections , and , at the end of the year , a new european commission will emerge . there is still time to react – by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies – but that the time is limited and the clock is ticking down . nobody wants the eu to default on the basis of its citizens ’ disaffection . next year will be critical , for it will mark the end of the current political cycle and the dawn of a new one . it is here that political leaders should devote their effort .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth throughout the developed world remain anemic , governments throughout asia are working to contain their economies on a upward trajectory . today , we asians are witnessing , on nearly daily basis , rampant fierce political assaults on the tools and policies that have helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge is to find ways to accelerate our already steady economic growth . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambitions the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power , or in earlier decades , cheered on japan ’s growth and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues .
more than 100 adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform calls for the central government ’s governance of iraq ’s natural resources , and deferring to the looming referendum in order to resolve the country ’s city of kirkuk . at the same time , change within the government is noteworthy . more than 100 adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . more than 100 adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks .
so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless at politics ; they are simply waiting for a genuine leader . yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state ( they are not the only ones ) . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french will never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization at all . the french still expect more things from their own government than from an integrated europe or boundless world . the political fervor , it seems , has not been vanished in rousseau and danton .
london – next week , governments gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectation and ambition running at an all-time low . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in abject poverty owing to more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . but this need not be like this : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change , the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . london – for the next week – is set to gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectation and ambition running at an all-time low .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of researchers , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects and catastrophic environmental damage . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change asserts that “ infrastructure development ” and long-lived products that lock societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive emissions pathways could prove difficult or extremely costly to change . “ infrastructure choices ” must be made to alleviate rather than exacerbate this . in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of researchers , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects is irreversible and catastrophic damage to the environment . and , indeed , the g20 has listed few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria for the “ wish list ” of mega-projects that each member country will submit to its summit in turkey in november .
perhaps the most telling recent example of the central bank , using forward guidance , was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy moves , as the bank of england ’s governor , has announced forward guidance for short-term interest rates . while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on the us economy may not be set without additional data , there are plenty of arguments in his favor . that pledge alone has stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically reduced interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries . the fed , for example , has committed to keeping interest rates low , at least until the unemployment rate fell to 6.5 % , – a move that has arguably kept long-term borrowing costs low .
this would not be an easy process and might well have met considerable iranian resistance . indeed , just the opposing reaction is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . yet , just when america has adopted a “ bomb ” and speaks ” approach to serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america must be willing to “ sanction and talk ” when it comes to iran , thus creating more room for an eventual diplomatic strategy . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic ties with iran and putting diplomats on the ground . iranians , however , have diplomatic relations with other members of his main interlocutor in talks over its nuclear program , the sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and re-establishing iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communications and closer to the 44-day chapter of 1979-1981 .
other countries have followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the world . in the ipl , glamour , glamour , and excess lay the antidote to the hidebound statist mentality , which spawned economic stagnation in india in the recent past . here was a venture that opened the new vistas for business and fired young people ’s imaginations to emulate entrepreneurial energies demonstrated by owners , promoters , players , and fans . to keen observers , the ipl has represented more than the league of sports ; it signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india . anyone watching the ipl , however , may be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” shape of the game , is in fact an american game deliberately rediscovered by indians .
at the 20 th century 's close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) appears more like a " neo-feudal " state than a modern society . at the 20 th century 's close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) seems more like a " neo-feudal " state than a modern society . this superficiality results from going so far as to say that , although communism has been an comprehension of the notion that modernity in romania goes only by skin deep . for here is a state in which groups , even individuals , struggle for privileges granted , not according to talent and work , but rather according to a group 's status in which one belongs . state banks , the state approved public societies ( commercial unions , for example ) big state firms , acted little differently in romania today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe .
but the fundamental problem is that until now , at every historical juncture , the palestinians refused to accept a compromise and consequently failed in nation-building . in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , calling for the establishments of two states in british palestine . it was this failure that brought hamas to power . on the contrary , diplomatic means may have brought about the release of an israeli soldier , putting a stop to the firing of qassam rockets from gaza into israel , a daily occurrence that challenged the credibility of the new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements of the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority , established under yasir arafat to become another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did little to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees .
japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in their mind , the united states ’ hard power matters more than its soft power , and their visions of america ’s “ bound to lead ” are largely unchanged . in asia , indonesia may look “ “ european ” in its obama craze , but it essentially represents an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing . otherwise , and for very different reasons , a majority of asian elites are waiting for the rising possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . for them , the us is above all the strategic counterweight needed to counterbalance china .
canberra – late last year , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump ’s hurling of the kindergarten insults at each other ’s “ “ rocket man ” are on a suicide mission , ” ” ” ” ” ” trump declared that trump was mentally deranged by america ’s dotard , ” ” ” ” ” while threatening to reduce east asia to a post-atomic wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are likely to meet . but optimism about this turn of events needs to be tempered by cautious realism . north korea is the nuclear issue from the rest of the world of hell . kim supposedly , then , is willing to denuclearize and seek to engage directly with trump , whom he has agreed .
nepad , a new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent and adequate norms of economic and political development across much of the continent , has been at the heart of this policy . despite its domestic problems and loss of global visibility , which has accompanied mandela ’s ’s ’s ’s retirement age , south africa remains perceived as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . such powers are seeking an effective and constructive regional role , and perhaps in some cases a global one . south africa is seeking a broader , more influential role , reinforced by its evident standing as the regional hegemon . they are prone to being proactive and assertive foreign policies and aspiring to more than the middle-power status quo and constrained niche-style influence that has enjoyed canada , sweden , or saudi arabia .
indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . earlier this year , as the american-led effort to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement began to falter , turkey took over the job of mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict between syria and israel . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgia crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward once again to assume a leadership role in the caucasus . it aspires to join the european union , bringing the eu to our three borders , even as we , too , aspire to join a single day . immediately after the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey proposed a black sea economic cooperation .
like a neighboring country , india would face alarming consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as would iran , which is not to sit idly by if sectarian strife intensified and shi’a objectives of a resurgent taliban . my fear is that the us has neither seen nor the last of either al qaeda nor the taliban . indeed , throughout the region , apprehension grows that once foreign troops abandon , afghanistan will again descend into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban to power again . this is why “ bringing us troops back home ” has become the prime objective of western politicians engaging with the region . the west needs to break out before bloodletting begin again in earnest .
moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ lending to non-financial companies , along with private-sector customers ’ current , fixed-term , and savings deposits by reforming insolvency laws . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equally to all is not a market economy . a market economy needs to rest on the principles of profit and losses . a market economy needs to rest on the economic principle of capital gains and losses . and governments need to respond to banks ’ threats by proclaiming a willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly .
from the perspective of international investors , the banks that are “ too big to fail ” are the perfect venues to park their reserves – as long as the sovereigns in question remain solvent . that was not a good idea , for it led to a massive ( for now ) debt crisis of 1982 . but gross capital flows come from emerging-market banks to emerging-market ones , through the big banks that are now implicitly backed by the state in the us and europe . when a similar unleashed first became apparent in the 1970 ’s , banks in western financial centers extended their loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . but what will these banks do with the money ?
but the transition plagues more than health crises ; they signify a deeper malaise . the world bank calls aids – the foremost threat to african development . so set aside the fact that these diseases are contagious and can easily spread , or that the idea that the fortunate bears some moral responsibility for the welfare of the poor and the sick , and simply weigh the economic consequences of the plagues of the transition . when it bestows , illness , despair , and death rush . companies in south africa stagger from the loss of so many workers to aids .
that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens visit the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should deliver this year . but , with turkey having so far failed to comply with the agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorist legislation , this may not happen – an outcome that has been made even more so by a coup attempt . erdoğan ’s ’s ’s post-coup crackdown is far removed from the single source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . but , while it would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders made strategic mistakes earlier .
nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically backed the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . moreover , during his recent electoral campaign , netanyahu has pledged that , if re-elected , he would impede the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ control over the whole region . ” as long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied a nation-state of their own , there will be conflict . the us should take it to its word , at its highest level . as it happens , settlements are a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state .
it failed to prevent money supply from contracting in the early stages of the great depression . but such reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretionary powers , more board power , and a greater role for the new york fed , all of which enabled the us federal reserve system to overreact more quickly and robustly in a crisis . given such ineptitude , it should come as no surprise that successive reforms were far-reaching . when financial stability hangs in the balance in 1933 , the reserve bank ’s failure to cooperate obstructed effective action by banks . heedless of his responsibility as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to collapse .
the american federal reserve board pumped out of trillions of dollars of reserves , but never held so many reserves that had been produced so little monetary expansion . the report was sound but misleading , for it failed to mention why there is so little inflation in america today . were the doves right , or only a lucky one ? pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reported by monetary-policy “ doves , ” ” ” who had predicted low inflation in the united states – who had gotten the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called “ quantitative easing ” ( qe ) , would unleash faster price growth . neither the hawks nor the doves ( or anyone else ) expected that .
the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 infant deaths and 500,000 child deaths annually . by reducing rates of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortion . moreover , cutting birth rates that are extremely high in many lmics would help reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing maternal and newborn care and immunization costs . by reducing rates of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortions . this does not bode well for mothers .
king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but his son , prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much of power . against this backdrop , the kingdom is engaging with its foes . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but his son , prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much of power . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . as defense minister , mohammad has continued saudi policy of supporting anti-assad insurgents in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a war on pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at enormous humanitarian expense ) .
the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to declare an end to the longest international conflict in american history before the 2020 us presidential election . at the same time , the us has accomplished many of its initial core goals . the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the us has been unable to remove the taliban from afghanistan , and has totally ruled out the country ’s chances of becoming a haven for terrorists . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban , as well as the impending diminution of america ’s military presence in the country , are a clear recognition of this .
just five months ago , in london , the us hosted a “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 , and the united nations . we had plenty of experts , including some 300 from the public and private sectors of 30 countries , attempting to provide an answer to a straightforward question : “ what would it take to double private-sector infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ” emerging-market officials would earn accreditation by demonstrating the ability to apply their knowledge practically . one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” the benchmarking index , created by the economist intelligence agencies , that evaluates emerging-market countries ’ capacity across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and ex-soviet republics in a commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . emerging-market officials would earn accreditation by demonstrating the ability to apply their lessons practically .
american efforts , headed by special envoy george mitchell , made it abundantly clear that the current ruling coalition in israel was incapable of doing the minimum required for peace . the results are mixed , at best . meanwhile , israeli governments want to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , in total violations of international law , and minimal peace requirements detailed in the us-sponsored “ roadmap ” ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) . the obama administration has detested its reputation to gain israelis and palestinians to agree on , at least on security and border , at the same time . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , in total violations of international law , and minimum requirements for peace detailed in the us-sponsored “ roadmap ” ( the us , the european union , and russia ) .
the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis began in thailand in july 1997 , with the baht ’s collapse , spreading rapidly to other east asian countries . with that , crises spill over across borders , affecting entire regions , or even the entire classes of emerging economies . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s ’s ’s ’s moratorium on external debt servicing in 1982 sparked a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis . then , contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly short-term investors from developed-country markets , started withdrawing funds from other countries to cover the losses they incurred in economies where crises originated . the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the baht ’s collapse , and quickly spread to other east asian countries .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming failure to contribute to economic growth . but un research has made it clear that , if blatantly politically driven aid is voted out of consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest , at best , not least because average vehicle financing has fallen by more than two-thirds . over the past decade , the joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries initiative and its expansion , an additional multilateral debt relief initiative , have made major strides toward debt sustainability . indeed , debt is another side to the development dilemma .
denver – for a number of foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary elections for the 2012 us presidential vote – which will alas continue to rage in the summer – must be a frightening display of what america and its leaders do not know about us foreign policy . to have even known the chinese perspective appears to have been disqualifying for the huntsman , who was soon shutting down his candidacy . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by making a few useful points on dealing with china , punctuated by a cursory display of mandar’ mastery , some other candidates have responded with derision . indeed , ignorance appears to have been a source of strength for the candidates still in the race . denver – for a number of foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary elections for a 2012 presidential vote – that will alas continue to rage in the summer – must be a frightening display of what america and its leaders do not know about foreign policy .
i helped to launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria last april . the agenda involves building better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations through mobile telecoms , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police forces , community leaders , and youth themselves – to advocate for safe zones for education . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for its most at-risk and vulnerable children . the fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from businesses , the nigerian government , and international donors , as well as a multidonor trust fund to build up to the un . the first set of schools has now received funding , with the first cohort of the most at-risk girls relocating to government schools in safer rural regions .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) – they need to address more than future targets to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions . at the same time , they must address the harm done to people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the rise in food and energy prices outpaced gains in nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while continuing to decline in home prices reduced wealth for most households . as a result , real personal-consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of only about 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter of a 4 % increase . this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to predict continued strong growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not occur . a one-year cut in payroll tax rates by two percentage points was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook .
when it comes to education , reporting calls on employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ” likewise , toyota “ has built its own high-tech technician program to provide a pathway to students seeking corporate careers . ” for example , it emphasizes miami dade college ’s “ in-house ” programs in animation and game development , working with companies like pixar animation studios and google . instead , we are left with routine microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment – that is , using big data to match people with jobs that they will need to remain consumers . once again , we are told that future labor-market participants should be endowed with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help them jump from one automated workplace to another .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , the consequences of climate change are likely to emerge far more rapidly than anticipated . last year , ’s united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of those facing hunger is indeed increasing , as is the number of malaria cases . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
québec will invest more than $ 3.3 billion to this goal by 2020 , contributing to the growth of its economy . these local plans are now driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge sharing among municipalities laying the foundations for further progress . the basque country has established a program , dubbed a local agenda 21 , aimed at supporting the establishment of local sustainability plans across the region . as a program is concerned , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such plans , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas such as agricultural mobility , waste management , and economic development . south australia , meanwhile , has developed the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment in australia , enabling increased renewables to share in power generation from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they had done little to arrest the downward spiral in output and price levels . in the 1930s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas the most had been those with the least ability to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that had remained stuck on the gold standard . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves on a deflationary vice . they did nothing to stabilize the rickety banking system . in dire efforts to do something – anything – to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to compensate for the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies .
madrid – ever since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by the two sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . today , the clique that surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deceit process that the peace process that began with the oslo agreements had in mind for the palestinians . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent the majority of the palestinians nor the rule of law through democratic means . internally , an impossible coalition and a settlement movement of free-lance fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leadership remains in serious jeopardy . its palestinian counterparts are hardly in a position to be seen .
the result is a vicious cycle in which the government finds it increasingly difficult to do whatever it takes . as policymaking becomes erratic , it loses credibility and becomes choked with gridlock , growth suffers and prospects for achieving prosperous forms of inclusiveness decline . but government intervention is critical to addressing the problems facing developed-country workers these days , which markets can not address on their own . countries experiencing high levels of and rising economic inequality often face political instability and policy dysfunction . this has fueled growing feelings of hopelessness – especially among men , which have manifested in rising non-labor-force participation , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment .
and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , continue to divide religious affiliation , celtic being catholic , and rangers . the tribe may be a club , a clan , or a nation . before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london to be “ jewish , ” ” ” while its arsenal was “ iranian . ” but a shared race or religion is not essential to a common race or religion . vestiges of these markings remain : adam amsterdam is still taunted by provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ”
the world bank could help to improve accountability for meeting this commitment by working with the un and national agencies to track and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators ranging from mortality to education are narrowed . in the language of the agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ” that flies in the face of the central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from the targets would benefit from the fastest progress . in a new report to begin at the imf-world bank annual meeting , save children documents a glaring gap between health risks that are heavily skewed toward the poorest children and gains from public spending are often skewed toward better-off households . at the same time , it is about to spend more equitably .
my trip occurred in april 2002 , a rather optimistic time . my personal recollections of north korea , now nearly ten years old , are of a poor , depressed country . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice ’s price has tripled , while electricity consumption is down more than two-thirds since two decades ago . pyongyang , the capital , has been dark and barren , illuminated by the cavalcade taking us from official housing to the opera house , merely to revert to darkness behind the us . kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor when he entered the opera house , which today marks public mourning of its death .
the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to be full and equal members of society to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paying back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages in less than three years . female employment has risen , and women aged 15-21 have been 5-6 % less likely to marry or give birth over this period . but there are other gender targets to consider . such a large change is not easy to achieve , but if girls are allowed to stay in school longer and have decent job opportunities available to them after graduation , they are likely to marry and bear children later .
though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , us vice president mike pence has warned three weeks later that , if north korea were to strike a deal , it would actually meet libya ’s fate . the “ world ” knows all too well that the us is neither libya nor iraq that have met the miserable fates . vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan has delivered the north ’s angry reaction : “ we are not hiding our sense of repugnance toward it . ” choe son hui , vice minister of foreign affairs , have responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington is to be stuck to “ unlawful and outrageous ” belligerence . the north has had no interest in drawing attention to a coerced dialogue .
in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , roughly a third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing . with the us current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is set to rise fast . but no country can continue to accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner or later must end . the result has been a precipitous decline in the value of the us dollar , which has depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated only by a brief slowdown in 2000-2001 – the united states has accumulated massive stockpiles of foreign liabilities , equal to 25 % of gdp .
princeton – the united states has shifted from soaring in the run-up to the us presidential election to the low of the political sex scandal in just one brief week . for many americans , the election has brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as managing director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . for many americans , the election has brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as managing director of the cia has been an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . the election has reminded many americans that the us is a country committed to and capable of progress , in order to move forward toward an ideal vision . in fact , both us elections and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of greater reach : an america that lives up to its promises .
it is true that the franc has appreciated in real terms by as much as 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 . in fact , one key reason for creating the international monetary fund has been to monitor exchange-rate devaluations with an explicit goal of impeding beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this is why the swiss move will come as a surprise . the first casualty would be whatever small scale remains for international policy coordination . the second would be the world ’s international monetary system .
likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . the second widely cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength . the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at a record low level , with gdp having grown by almost 10 % since 2013 . the call by björn has-the afd , the afd ’s ’s ’s state leader , for a “ 180-degree turning ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for crimes in the nazi era , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposing of ” germany ’s integration minister of turkish origin in anatolia , repelled voters . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is clear why the inequality-directed outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere gains little traction in germany .
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing punishment by individuals and online media outlets for spreading the so-called fake news and information that “ disrespects the state . ” enormous fines have been imposed on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . us president donald trump is attempting to go the same way . his constant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and his “ enemy of the people ’s ” is reflected in the nazis ’ preferred brand of media label : lügenpresse ( lying at the press ) . china and turkey , both olympic-level jailers of journalists , have ramped up their repression in recent years .
bush might think that america is doing much to help tackle these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minimal . blair ’s africa commission , together with the un millennium project , has found that africa needs about $ 50 billion a year in aid flows by 2010 . without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa ’s struggles over subsistence levels . yet official american aid to africa amounts to just $ 3 billion a year , and much of that covers pay for american consultants rather than investment in africa ’s needs . america ’s just-completed share of the world ’s population is roughly $ 15 billion a year .
how the world responds to north korea is likely to affect calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . north korea is now the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the united nations security council ’s five permanent members , israel , india , and pakistan . sustaining the peace process in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on the nuclear triggers will be far more difficult — and the consequences of failure far more destructive . the danger now is that we may be fast approaching a tipping point . north korea ’s nuclear tests have been uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) in united nations security council resolution 1718 that condemns the test , demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and imposes a wide range of military , political , and economic sanctions .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be chief executive director of the us national trade council , a new white house policy store shop to be established on a par with the national security council and the national economic council . ross and navarro have also been co-authors of the economic-policy position paper , published on trump ’s campaign web site , which has broadened some semblance of credibility . the titles of his two most recent books – the death rate by china ( 2011 ) and the crouching tiger : what china ’s ’s ’s ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – are speaking volumes about its tabloid-level biases . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks in china . the continent ’s industrialist wilbur wilbur wilbur ross has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals .
as a result , the euro-dollar ’s exchange rate has barely shifted ; indeed , the euro has appreciated against a basket of major currencies . but , because policymakers have constantly threatened to end qe , markets have inferred that the ecb has not been committed to sustained stimulus . the clash of interests among the eurozone ’s member states is straightforward . eurozone inflation has become a “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy decisions . the ecb has then declared victory , and has since withdrawn qe just as the european economy has slowed .
american antitrust law , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , for example , resulted in only six cases of criminal prosecution in thirty years . in many cases , however , such imported laws were either ignored , selectively enforced , or adhered to only in form , rather than substance . experience suggests that import laws and legal norms rarely works well . for centuries , western rule arrived with colonial rulers . even after europe ’s ’s ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster development in post-colonial countries .
as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes “ “ “ “ just ” newspapers ’ traditional business model is to get revenues not from readers , but from advertisers , personal genomics companies see potential profits not from consumers themselves , but from compiled databases – likely through sales access . ” but other firms have been accused of having more interest in developing a “ biobank ” of samples and data than in genetic testing . there is certainly nothing wrong with this ; but it does seem odd that customers effectively pay a firm for donating to its dna to its database . drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase biobanks on which they can test their products for differential reactions according to patients ’ genetic make-up . this new development , dubbed the “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective therapies .
even with german-level interest rates , greece would be forced to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still quite a very large one , and far outside the fiscal deficit today . european banks hold greek government debt could keep pretend that it is worth its full value . and , faced with the value of greece ’s debt unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger . the question now is whether a change in coupons – possibly coupled with an extension of maturities – would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to reject greek bonds as collateral .
the combination of social polarization , poor institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it much harder for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . venezuela is a case in point . current-account deficits have been growing , resulting in frequent foreign-exchange crises . against this backdrop , “ neoliberal ” reforms – for example , the rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – have left economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . excessively high fiscal and monetary expansion has made these economies unstable .
interestingly , many purveyors of pornography originally thought that a better quality video would make their product more desirable . thus , a kind of “ casual ” manufacturing style has been embraced , akin to worn designs and ripped jeans . but , in reality , high production values seem to have been less popular . movies produced for the sexual gratification of consumers reveal cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . in fact , portugal is so neatly tuned to consumers ’ tastes that shifts may indicate changes to society almost immediately .
former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done so – and continue to do so . but he has never been aspired to lead a country like france . the question , then , is which is worse . clowns have always played a role in politics , at least for the time being . neither the clown , as well as the tycoon , is well suited to being a democratic leader .
one such project , the fuggerei complex in augsburg , germany , still provides low-rent social housing to this day . during an earlier era of urban-based dynamism , in an earlier sixteenth-century era , wealthy merchant families built low rent-seeking housing that was then allocated to the poor . so , if they wanted to survive and flourish in today ’s egalitarian political climate , bold solutions will have to emerge . eventually , the towns and urban areas driving the bulk of new wealth creation will provoke counter-movement . if they price out , or otherwise , those earning less money will sacrifice first-past-the-post openness .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré at the beginning of the twentieth century , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate , which , during the dreyfus affair , had exiled themselves in the republic . nor did pierre mendès in the 1950s hesitate to tell the communists that they did not want their vote to back his rule . for what will be required to hold territories that the republic almost lost to the fn is a political courage of a kind that is in short supply for the time being . france now needs to remember these great moments in its republican tradition , holding them up as a model for today ’s leaders . nor has pierre mendès in the 1950s hesitate to tell the communists that he did n’t want their votes to back his rule .
it did not , because us bonds are based not only on shared threats , but on shared ideals . and we do know that those landings have created a unique bonds among our continents . that bond remains vital to preserving our own values and our security . but , with the end of the cold war , many assumed that its institutional incarnation – the north atlantic treaty organization – would fade away . it did not , because our bonds are based not only on shared threats , but on our shared ideals .
is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet , which recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? the chinese have been so smart in so many areas as well . i hope that this issue does not derail china ’s efforts to use the olympics as an opportunity to showcase the world that their country has emerged once again as one of the world ’s leaders . in fact , is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet , which recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? china , for its part , has no favors for the remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s , when debating this issue .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . sarajevo – ever since the twin catastrophes of 2016 – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum , together with us president donald trump ’s election , has led to widespread anxiety over a “ global wave of populism ” and hand-wringing over the follies of so-called “ direct democracy . ” in the uk , voters were challenged to answer an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries were handed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , there have been calls to re-empower the “ gatekeepers ” – a polite way to say that the unwashed masses should be left as far away from political decision-making .
berkeley – to fix the problem , it is not enough . its starting point is the enormous rise of wealth among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and consequent pressure on people , governments , and companies to take on an increasingly unsustainable level of debt . that is the message of two recent books , which , together , tell you everything that you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it ; what could be done to prevent it from being replicated ; and why those things have yet to be done . the first book involves shifts and shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who begins by cataloguing of major shifts that set the stage for an economic catastrophe that continues to shape the world today . indeed , you need to implement a solution – and be willing to change course if it turns out that you did not know quite as much as you thought .
a second feature of the digital information age – a direct by-product of democratization – is socialization of information . this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , such as those that are typically enforced within established media organizations . without the traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse is no longer founded on a shared collection of facts . rather than receiving our information directly from the institutional gatekeepers , who , despite the often-flawed execution , have been fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , today we are acquiring it through peer-to-peer sharing . this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations .
to be sure , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated . robert putnam , a leading scholar of america ’s declining community sense of community , has discovered that tv viewing is a central explanation of the decline in “ social capital ” ” ” ” ” the trust that binds communities together . to be sure , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated . americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago . moreover , heavy tv viewing has fueled social fragmentation .
but , since the 1980 ’s , the us has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts . with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , the american people continue to enjoy a dominance of space exploration for peaceful and scientific evolution . lurking behind china ’s ambition in space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the military-high command circles whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . in fact , that dangerous and irresponsible action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will become a peaceful nation once it grows into a strong power . it flatly contradicts china ’s leaders ’ repeated assurances that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community .
temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything is said to reside in our genes . every time a new , powerful scientific formulation appears to have to follow a period of abusive application . distinguished scientists proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed on dna molecule , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir , asserting that human beings are nothing short of “ programmed ” entities . nowadays , it is the turn of molecular genetics . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : all are said to reside in our genes .
around its picturesque squares , every cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne quiet witness to the bloodletting that accompanied the rise of empires and slumps . yet lviv is also where one can find hope for europe ’s promise . at a time when both russia and ukraine are still very much at war with each other , policymakers , local citizens , the ukrainian diaspora members , and even some russians have pack the streets of lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine has a strategically vital interest in the west . lviv is a profoundly anti-russian and pro-european city ; but for five days , it hosts the alpha jazz festival , sponsored by the russian bank .
obama has outsourced the details of the $ 787 billion in fiscal stimulus to the us congress and , no surprise , the old house barons stuffed it with pork and social engineering . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of the us administration . ) a few months later , just 4 % -6 % of us funding has been spent , while the federal government is brow-beating state governments over demands that california rescind a small payroll-tax cut for some unionized workers , or that it will lose $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . the us administration is exploiting the atmosphere of crisis to enact a grand agenda that would re-engineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to health care and energy distribution . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of the us administration . )
sadly , in a world without common institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of an all-out war will rise substantially . as europeans know well , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean sea . the eu views the world as a zero-sum strategic contest , in which the us should look only beyond itself . to be sure , the us argues that it is stepping up its commitment to european security . moreover , it is disturbing that the trump administration hardly ever to talk about upholding the us-led postwar liberal international order .
america ’s consumer , meanwhile , benefited enormously from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the us economy ’s tradable side . this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and recently excess saving ) , has underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . accordingly , american jobs have shifted to higher-yielding manufacturing industries , in turn promoting higher incomes in america . the old pattern has served both sides well for the past three decades . the old pattern has served both sides well for three decades .
a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities , under president donald trump , demands that europeans revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . when russia annexed crimea and brought war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . then came trump , whose administration withdrew the rug from beneath europe ’s feet , abandoned american leadership within a rules-based international system and pursued a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy . this is not the first time that nato seemed to have been on its last legs . many arrived at the same conclusion before 2014 , when the alliance had little to focus on outside missions in afghanistan .
thus , america ’s federal reserve will continue to lift the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 – and that is likely to push the short – and the long-term interest rate , like the american dollar . second , because the stimulus has been badly timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , with inflation rising above target . by 2020 , the stimulus will run out , with a modest fiscal drag on growth from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . meanwhile , inflation is also rising in other key economies , with rising oil prices fueling additional inflationary pressures . first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently pushing america ’s growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable .
in reality , us and british troops may have only themselves to blame . this is because a desert in the region normally has a crust , what arabs refer to as “ desert skin , ” consisting of sand and clay particles baked together , or sintered , through heat and sun . increased sand ’s drift was one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war . in reality , us and british troops may have only themselves to be blamed . this is because a desert in the region normally has a crust , what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sand and clay particles baked together , or sintered , through heat and sun .
other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly have had sexual relations with mafia figures as well . this reevaluation of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960 ’s occurred in other arenas , as well as reinforcing the transformation of kennedy ’s ’s image from the charming playboy to the dangerously compulsive predator of the world . likewise , a mob of mad men , ” ” with her dashing advertising executives who consume women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs emptiness , and destructiveness for the early-1960s ’ male sexual privilege . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded ever since – a process that , like so much in american culture , has played out on tv . other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly had sexual relations with mafia figures as well .
one key truth about the last year is that financial-market problems lie not only with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks depicting non-canny capacity in order to generate trouble through excessively risky gamesmanship , whether in borrowing to emerging markets or ltcm ltcm . ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial market crises . one important truth about the last year is that financial-market problems lie not only with hedge funds -- which are the largest and least regulated gamblers -- but with good old commercial banks showing non-canny ability to generate trouble through excessively risky gamesmanship , whether in borrowing to emerging markets or ltcm . when push came to shove , with ltcm 's on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply let `` market forces '' take their course . the banks that had loaned enormous sums , mostly unlocked , into ltcm , which imposed about $ 175 billion of short-term loans to the five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) , and then abruptly reversed gear and yanked tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 .
cambridge – public-private cooperation , or coordination , is receiving considerable attention nowadays . while adam smith launched us on the optimistic belief that an invisible hand would take care of most coordination issues , in the intervening period economists discovered all kinds of market failures , informational imperfections , and incentives problems that gave rise to rules , regulations , and other forms of government and societal interventions . to be sure , private-private coordination was at the core of economics for the last 250 years . a plethora of centers for studying entrepreneurial and government-connected relationships has been created , with researchers producing a large literature on how to design , analyze , and evaluate public-private partnerships . even the world economic forum has been transformed into an international organization for public-private cooperation .
for starters , a broad range of studies , from the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s ’s ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson , find that institutions and political cultures are the single most consequential determinants of long-term growth . recovery from the harm trump places on america ’s institutions and political culture can take for years ; if it does , the economic costs could be substantial . but , while the trump administration has strengthened america ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger is rather grim . president-elect donald trump ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . while it is easy to be cynical ( some argue that a new program is little more than an excuse to cut funding from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and training is good .
most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth at a rate above 2 % , without another permanent increase in oil prices . that would provide a platform to re-establish trade , transportation , and other linkages among former soviet countries , and thus capture regional markets for russian goods , ensure russian jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political clout in its old neighborhood . but a 2 % growth rate ( a respectable rate for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s ’s ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and might endanger domestic stability if jobs disappear with critical manufacturing industries . his main proposal so far has been a “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current eu customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . putin is confusing how to counter the threat posed by sluggish growth .
those tests , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy picture of their countries ’ imf institutions , no longer in charge , one can hope for an assessment to be more robust than the earlier stress test conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . the ecb , reasonably sensibly , wants all of its potential horrors to be visible even before the takeover can not be blamed . but creating europe ’s banking union was not the only important shift toward european financial regulation since the crisis . a few banks that passed with flying colors were soon forced to raise new capital .
not all have been succeeded ; but the achievements ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the key to securing the future of europe ’s social-security systems – and thus its social model – is more rapid growth . and , once again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve . the barriers to growth are well known , and have existed for a long time , without being withdrawn . the reason is pretty straightforward : if a politically easy way to generate growth had been implemented , it would have been already implemented .
gazprom ’s goal is to control not only the gas industry in georgia , but also the only pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgian and armenia . many state-owned firms have been privatized for ten times the sums yielded in asset sales under the previous government of edvard shevardnadze . but the utter lack of transparency has allowed russian companies , as well as their subsidiaries registered in the third world , to snap up most of these new offerings . typical was the russian holding company promyslennye ’s investory act ( industrial investors ) , which has managed to acquire a major gold mine , followed by a half-plant producing gold alloys . russia ’s main foreign-policy tool in georgia is gazprom ’s state-owned gas monopoly .
yet , even at a time when the fighting has become less intense in congo suffers from the indirect effects of war . renewed fighting , the coming eight months after the promising peace initiative , known as the “ goma deal ” initiative , ” implies more civilian deaths and little chance of normality returning to eastern congo . today , one-quarter of one million people are on the run , nearly half of them on rebel-controlled territory and almost no access to aid . as always , the main casualties are being seized in the crossfire . the mortality survey , conducted by the international relief committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year , demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of war and its lingering effects over the past decade .
it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – the decade leading up to world war i and the past 75 years that have been characterized by the balance of power and hegemony , respectively – by the us . like all economic activity , it flourishes when property rights are respected , taxation is efficient and purposeful , letters of credit honored , tariffs , and other barriers removed , and so on . to be sure , trade requires more than the absence of conflict . the same might perhaps be said of trade or even of globalization itself . henry kissinger once said , “ peace ” can be achieved only through hegemony or a balance of power .
externships offer transparency and accountability to educators and imbue the spirit of students ’ fearlessness . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . our educational system can no longer afford to wall itself off from the industrial world . when properly integrated to a student-centered student ’s educational attainment , externships can provide a competitive edge over college application essays and at campus or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to differentiate twenty-first-century leaders from competing hordes of top-scoring test-takers . for smes , externships ensure much-needed creative manpower .
but a few million americans – brazil , india , south korea , and hispanic – now reside in middle-income households below $ 2 per day , essentially the same standard that the world bank uses to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . beyond this , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is being under threat . elite schools recruit affluent people to pay their bills , and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class whose children find no room in this brave new world . elite schools recruit the affluent to pay their bills , and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class whose children find no room in this brave new world . finding shelter in the united states about the fact that income is so difficult that $ 2-a-day poverty is almost surely far much worse in america than $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa .
website startups might even seek to check their users ’ profiles on a angel list of angel investors ’ database , viewing them as a potential source of funding . website startups might even seek to check their users ’ profiles on a angel list of angel investors ’ database , viewing them as a potential source of funding . some people wo n’t want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities that try to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unidentified entities that know so much about them . indeed , many online services now offer to link users with their facebook friends or linkedin links , or recommend activities or restaurants that rely on past behavior or current placement . once a company identifies which users have the most influence – well-known bloggers , for example , may offer them better treatments – in the hope of advising them .
for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage has been a tipping point , whereas left-wing catholics have found themselves crowded out of the far right . french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged position has come under assault , owing to the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks and , through legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . but fillon ’s supporters , too , dismiss multiculturalism , and have responded to their status anxieties by dismissing expertise . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories shows , online trolling , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign . with france becoming less catholic and america becoming ever more diversified , their “ zombie ” armies will decay ; but , as trump ’s ’s ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance demonstrated , they may not be written off only so far .
for better or worse , our central banks are managing the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to the stock held by private banks . and vice versa , when the authorities want to cool down the economy . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money people shift from their bank accounts to their libra pocketbooks , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy . when it comes to stimulating economic activity , central banks buy from private banks ’ commercial borrowing , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . the banks then have more cash to lend .
with america ’s invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . opinion polls show a similar reaction after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , as well as the deployment of intermediate-range cruise missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s . despite a long history of alliances dating back to the american revolution and including two world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial us security policy has undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the un , with french president jacques chirac feeling reaffirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower , and his call for a multipolar world .
this should not be allowed , and us multinationals should cease to add to the problem by threatening to leave countries where taxes are cut . after all , a fundamental tenet of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay for their fair share of taxes wherever they do work . when countries develop tax regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from others , the result is also less money for education , healthcare , poverty-reduction programs , and action to address climate change . tax competition is not the way forward , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investments , especially in developing countries , which , according to the international monetary fund ’s 2015 report , have lost on more than $ 200 billion a year , owing to tax avoidance by us multinationals . they can do so in a variety of ways , such as through investments in education , funding scientific and technological research , and construction of efficient infrastructure .
what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs has coincided with bull markets . broad market returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility likely to become more frequent . index performance has been largely dictated by safety selection , with episodes of volatility likely to become increasingly frequent . but those days are likely to be over . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainties .
cambridge – economics teaches that a measure of an individual ’s well-being is the quantity and variety of goods that he or she or she can consume . no one can deny that this consumer – and the market-centric vision of the economy – has produced plenty of low-hanging fruit . consumption options are in turn maximized by giving firms the freedom they need to seize new technologies , sharing labor , economies of scale , and upward mobility . markets , rather than communities , are unit and objecting to analyses . consumption is a target ; manufacturing is the means to it .
some estimates put the internet ’s ’s ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . the internet now connects almost half the world ’s ’s population and another billion , along with some 20 billion devices , – a prediction that the next five years will be linked . fragmentation – meaning the end of the internet – is a real threat . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be hugely expensive to the entire world , but that is one of the possible futures outlined earlier this month in the world economic forum ’s report on internet governance , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . but further expansion is no guarantee at all .
the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , helped to lower energy prices and detract america ’s dependence on foreign oil . likewise , much of the fast forward in communications over the past few years reflects innovations in smartphone and tablet and software , for example , that were indigenous in america . that sounded like an agreeable experience , perhaps a learning experience – for young men who would otherwise be idle and unemployed – was unable to end america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , america ’s economy ’s manifest relative strength today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . but it has not been much inspiration to the future , which may have helped explain why franklin d. roosevelt ’s new deal proved incapable of ending america ’s economic malaise .
this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with private-sector and nongovernmental organizations . mgi has identified several interventions worldwide that could easily deploy more broadly . measures proven to improve access to education include building more secondary-school coverage , ensuring that girls are delivered with sanitation facilities in locations where they study ; and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to boost enrollment and keep girls in school . it will demand additional investment , creating job opportunities for women , and introducing measures to help women migrate to more productive work . and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies – part of reducing unpaid care work undertaken by women in developing countries .
but , like unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . the other major multilateral migration agency , the iom , assists at the return of migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced persons to their point of origin , or to other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , it is beholden to their interests , and it does not always enjoy the political backing that they need to get the job done . unhcr , it is currently conceived by law , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency that it claims to be . unhcr , as is currently conceived , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency that it claims to be .
to do that , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures like quantitative easing ( qe ) to stimulate growth and job creation . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities of income , wealth , and opportunity – left unchecked – reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . with political gridlock blocking an appropriate fiscal response – after the 2008 financial crisis – the united states congress failed to pass an annual budget , a bedrock of responsible economic governance , for the last five years , forced central banks to bolster economies artificially . meanwhile , companies have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their tax bills , including through so-called inversions , by shifting their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold a disproportionately large share of financial assets .
all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat populist dress – that is , a pluto-populist one . according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote on the foundations of nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than on their own financial interests . but how long can anyone be expected to endorse “ god and guns ” at the expense of bread-and-butter ” ? and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the country ’s legal migrants . but why has its base left him apart with pursuing policies that mostly hurt them ?
sadly , february 23 is not the only remaining relic of the red army . the holiday received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider it to be either special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . another soviet military legacy is the system of obligatory conscription . while all other large european countries have rescinded military conscription in recent decades , russia maintains a system within which all the physically-fit male population is between 18 and 27 must serve for 12 months . waivers are based on medical conditions and are given to university students and employees of specific organizations ( such as police agents ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and profound crisis , albeit perhaps one with a favorable resolution . the first african region to be christianized has been the land of saint augustine and a major source of catholic evangelism in africa . it once was a pillar of both the roman republic ’s cultural dynamism and its influence . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice that of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg – and includes a combined population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation in terms of its climate , history , and culture .
true , any arab state – indeed , virtually everyone – knows precisely who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists who toe the official line , while punishing those , such as khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist has had to mask the culprit ’s image speaks volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists in the arab world . khashoggi ’s disappearance has merely deepened their anxieties . since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia is the sole success story – citizens throughout the region have found themselves taking a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule .
second , complicated instruments should be traded on exchanges rather than over-the-counter markets , and they should be standardized to allow liquid secondary markets to emerge . reversing financial liberalization will be hard to achieve , but its adverse side effects – including greater systemic risk – call for a number of reforms . fourth , the role of rating agencies needs to be rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . first , more information and transparency regarding the complex assets involved .
and yet it is only one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capabilities , resisting non-existential threats and hegemonic expansionism . to be sure , they should continue to engage with the outside world , reinforcing their strategic relationships and alliances . but they also need to become less reliant on others . arabs must take charge of their own agendas and become a primary force defining their future and that of their countries .
besley and burgess claimed to demonstrate that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , jobs , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that did not adopt such regulations . this wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it influenced policies accordingly across a broad range of developing countries . one of the empirical investigations most frequently cited for this argument is a paper by timothy besley and robin burgess using manufacturing data across indian states over a period of 1958-92 . that conclusion came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to boost manufacturing and manufacturing employment is to advocate for more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws protecting workers . one of the empirical investigation most frequently cited for this argument is a paper by timothy besley and robin burgess using manufacturing data across indian states for a period of 1958-92 .
swelling migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense at border controls . britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether only across the english channel or in china or california . britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers occupying a mission , with one pilot saying to others , “ this appears a long way towards bombast by a small number of young men in southern london . ” on the wind , the environmental hazards blow .
after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , chávez has proposed deepening his revolution with new laws governing society and economics . such laws , already agreed but not fully implemented , should serve as a catalyst for a new institutional arrangement within the country , one supposedly premised on a direct relationship between the leader and the people , and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . given this history , it is noteworthy that , in his acceptance of the day , chávez has called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and all to work together for the good of venezuela . he has stressed the popular vote for chávez and socialism . in the meantime , all the bodies of public power – all of them now obey chávez .
when harm occurs in key genes that regulate cell growth , cancer can develop . when harm occurs in key genes regulating cell growth , cancers can develop . they can also damage the products of ordinary metabolism . genes can damage environmental factors , such as radiation and chemicals . our bodies elaborate systems that preserve the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of harmful agents .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . far from leveling the playing field , large tech is now largely owned by it , and , rather than democratizing its economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the entire world ’s inequality problem . but , as some of these startups have grown into behemoths , they have reversed that strength on its head . ithaca – the internet was once hailed by a powerful democratizing force , in order to enable innovative startups to compete with established businesses , disrupt entire industries , and forming new ones .
in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu has described clean energies as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that , by “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ t ] he alone . ” still , one remains wonder whether this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove strong enough to halve through not only america ’s long history of distrustful interactions with the us and china , but also its destabilizing effects on china ’s sudden economic rise ? “ “ but the developing world ” may make the situation much worse . for , though the us has been attracting strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s ’s ’s ’s cabinet represents a new high-water mark for diversity – americans have often displayed the kind of xenophobic mistrust of immigrants who have attracted far too close to power . in particular , concerns about divided national loyalties and the “ fifth columbia ” have been strong .
on a cyclically-adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . this , too , implies that , if greece could escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp . greece ’s economic weakness increases its current level of deficits . the imf forecasts that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays have raised the overall deficit to almost 5 % of greek gdp . on the cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can together reshape the global order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a monumental shift away from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can together reshape the global order . ” when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970 ’s , i struck my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining equal status with china . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , its defense minister referred to china and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee ’s talk about china as india ’s number one enemy .
the head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has issued new regulations that are not bank-friendly . given that hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would not easily work with it . whereas one may debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of a crisis , his order to boost banks ’ capital is entirely justified , particularly at a time when the european central bank subsidizes them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost . so , too , did germany get the stick , rather than the carrot ? fortunately , the eu has a good independent test .
third , financial-market participants and , increasingly , real businesses are pricing in a potential eurozone breakup , if not an end to the euro itself . now , however , even the mighty bund has started to suffer from heightened market anxiety . while it has been necessary to price risk more precisely , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be assessed as a higher level of default . second , and partly as a result , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt is traded at a discount relative to german bunds . it remains hard to think the unthinkable , much less work out the details of it , but any rational player must now consider the possibility .
one quote from surkov , who day one is particularly telling : “ make ready for elections , train your brains , and muscles . ” that meeting has been participating as part of a rally , led by surkov , of russia ’s youth-movements activists . those muscles were put to use outside the kremlin ’s wall , which is a matter of course very day . indeed , by luck , on sunday , a young soccer fan has been assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . you can always count on our support .
last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) warned that if the world ’s sticks with “ business-as-usual ” businesses , global temperatures could rise to more than 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c rise deemed “ safe . ” today , that sentiment is startlingly relevant to the global economy , only it is becoming green that is the problem . today , that sentiment is startlingly relevant to the global economy , only it is becoming “ green ” that is the problem . but , as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by substantial investments in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables . hong kong – the kermit wall street once lamented that “ it ’s not easy bein ’ greenpeace . ”
the organization and allocation of power at the un , the imf , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect a global equilibrium that has disappeared long ago . after wwii , germany and japan were the vanquished aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china was engulfed in the civil war that would have brought mao ’s communists to power . the organization and allocation of power at the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect a global equilibrium that had disappeared long ago . much of the so-called third world was either recently independent or remained colonies ; all were impoverished . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect realities that had long ceased to exist .
just prior to the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron had made a last-minute appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the popular movement within the uk . merkel rejected , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . but when immigration levels exceed a country ’s ’s capacity to absorb new workers , severe economic and social costs can follow , at least in the short run . the irony here is that merkel now faces the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 . merkel rejected , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin .
a odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer and , in a 2010 paper by the center for global development ( cgd ) , suggested that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of odious obligations . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just accomplished . the cgd ’s report suggests that a regime should be seen as odious if it abuses a population ’s human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriation of public money . such a declaration reduces the flow of funding to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments will renounce their predecessor ’s debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating in countries ’ courts will not enforce debt contracts ) . the mechanism would take the form of the declaration that the debt issued by a particular government should be considered odious .
in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , with a new election bringing asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who was assassinated earlier in december , to the presidency . but his confrontation with the army intensified over the years , resulting in yet another military coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 1997 , he was sharif ’s turn again . ignoring constitutional requirements , zardari failed to transfer executive authority to his prime minister , instead expecting the two prime ministers who had served under him to follow through on his orders . that cleared the way for bhutto to return , who had remained prime minister , until 1996 , when she had been dismissed out of office yet again , by her own pakistan ’s peoples party .
the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp fertility declines in poor countries that are now showing solid signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate has declined from 4.8 children per woman in the past 15 years . during the same period , tunisia ’s population growth has fallen by more than 50 % , to slightly more than two children per woman levels , while per capita income has grown at an impressive annual rate of 3 % . rich countries ’ shift away from subsistence economies toward sustained growth and prosperity has been conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring during the 19 th century in western europe and the twentieth centuries in east asia -- where fertility rates have fallen dramatically . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income has grown by more than 2.6 % .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s efforts to build the pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now being met by the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . both countries are also on a similar path militarily . it has built and started its first aircraft carrier , and it has plans to launch yet more of it . it is developing and deploying anti-access/denial anti-access/denial ( a2/ad ) defense systems . though china still has plenty to catch up , its overall defense spending is already second only to america .
the resulting vacuum has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession experiments , national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . developments in syria and iraq already suggest as much , and lebanon ’s future and jordan have become increasingly precarious . one of the few positive features of the region is that no global power rivalries currently play out there . america ’s misadventure in iraq , its depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous level of commitment to the region , has rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , as no other outside power for order . indeed , a partial us withdrawal implies that ending the old middle east ’s enforced stability will not spare the sykes-picot borders .
in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . in other words , the 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy may well hit the same kind of labor-absorption targets that demanded a 10 % growth slowdown under china ’s previous pattern . that implies that the chinese economy can reach its all-important labor-absorption goals – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with much slower gdp growth than it did in the past . why , then , are services so important for china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than a country ’s traditional growth sectors .
the united kingdom now looks certain to hold by the 2016 referendum on remaining within the eu and the far-left party determined , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic reform could win spain ’s ’s ’s general election next fall . but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece has leaving the eurozone ) ; “ brexit ” ( leaving the eu ) ; “ brexit ” ( leaving the eu ) ; and a spanish election outcome that resembles greece ’s . indeed , all euroskeptic and eu nationalist forces would strive , with their increased success , to compel their respective countries to withdraw from the eu as a matter of domestic political discourse and electoral campaigns . should such a perfect storm take place , the eu would be in doubt , for other member countries to consider or even start planning their own post-eu futures . certainly , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , with spain vying for the status quo , or a more subdued vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government has embraced .
and yet , in this gathering storm , it has been difficult to find a single real accomplishment through the world ’s leaders . with oil prices at an historic highs , oil prices are at an historic highs . the key economies are entering a recession , with the us and europe . aid to the poorest parts of the world is stagnant , despite years of promised increases . and yet , in this rally , it has been difficult to find a single real accomplishment by the world ’s leaders .
two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur a economic revival . instead , they paved the way for its defeat . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone for politics , with frustration and insecurity regarding the future of overshadowing hope . in just a few short years , a package of pro-market reforms and economic opening seemed out of step with the rest of the world . frustration notwithstanding , the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile .
not surprisingly , then , that a sort of survivalist chic has become an updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960 ’s . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ the morning of america , ” but in america now it is the morning after that . they were asked to admire the high-tech top of the income pyramid , just to find that they looked at the pyramid scheme . this drive toward the off-the-grid , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there-on-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy is unavoidable : americans were pumped out of hope that more consumption would make them happier , leaving the eu with a pile of debt . americans have since lost faith in those who , in the boom times , purred to the us .
indeed , it has repeatedly displayed a knack for disaggregating its strategy into multiple parts , and then pursuing each element separately in such a way as to permit the various pieces to fall into place with minimal opposition . to be sure , china is wary of avoiding any kind of dramatic us action that might become a casus belli by itself . chinese leaders ’ stated desire to settle territorial disputes peacefully simply means attaining a status powerful enough to get their way , without having to fire a shot . that shrewdness not only impedes their opponents ’ rebalancing ; it also undercuts america ’s security assurances to its allies , as well as the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . in fact , by camouflaging ’s offense as defense , china casts the burden of initiating a war on its challenger , while seeking to lay the foundations through a brick of the hegemonic middle kingdom .
los angeles took decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , such as beijing , have converted quickly when they saw the benefits . in the coming decades , we may see a global system of interconnected sustainable cities emerging . such cities learn from one another , building on good ideas and jettisoning poorer ones . fundamentally , this is the right approach to managing systemic risk and transforming complex , interconnected systems , and for managing common resources successfully , even though it has so far been motivated by the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . if successful , everyone wants to join the club .
new york – a few years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with president xi jinping in beijing ’s grand hall of the people ’s liberation army ( pla ) . in his 2017 book destined to war : can america and china escape the thucydides trap ? when it comes to resolving the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not fear the “ thucydides trap , ” so named for a greek historian who has chronicled how sparta fears a rising athens made war between the two inevitable . no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on remaining four . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions upon millions of people , desected the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? chinese intellectuals are prone to avoiding the issue , dismissing it as irrelevant and anyway too disagreeable to contemplate . what is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? we need to look ahead , rather than back , to say . chinese intellectuals are prone to dodge the issue , shrugging it off as irrelevant and anyway too disagreeable to contemplate .
london – what are the just-released panama papers , exxonmobil , and canadian mining companies operating in guatemala have in common ? the global uproar triggered by the panama papers – 11.5 million files taken , apparently by computer hackers , from the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for a while . the files ’ release exposed the extreme , and sometimes expensive , lengths to which individuals are traveling to hide their assets and shirk taxation . and they are all instances where the effort did not work . they are all instances in which powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind a front .
its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , with its trade unions agitating to squeeze wages up to european levels , despite lagging productivity . some will argue that the fateful error was enabled by greece to adopt the euro . but that answer is all too simple , given that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece . the longer-term implications will not be savory . that the country was unprepared to be obvious .
prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne are blamed for the euro crisis ; in fact , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . that policy was destined to produce a financial crisis , because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and larger debts . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears a repeat of the day . that prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne are blamed for the euro crisis ; in reality , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . that prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne are blamed for the euro crisis ; in fact , their own economic illiteracy is to blame .
paris – last month , the concentration of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere has surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend that fits the worst-case scenario established by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm toward this century ’s end , with devastating consequences . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to about 550 ppm by the end of this century , a level that many researchers argue would already be far too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , the predicted global average temperature rise of 2.4-6.4 ° c due to such high ambient co2 concentrations is expected to trigger worst-case outcomes in ipcc scenarios , including loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid imposing such risks and uncertainties on future generations , global carbon emissions – which stand at 8.5 gigatons – must be halved by 2050 .
the european commission has just presented a proposal to reform the common fisheries policy designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . but it is not enough to get our respective houses in order . because fish and other oceanic wildlife will not remain within national boundaries , international cooperation is critical to the world ’s long-term health and fisheries sustainability and fisheries fishing jobs . good science is the cornerstone of both policies . good science is the cornerstone of both policies .
today , transformational health-care advances owe much to new forms of genomics , the availability of big data to influence real-time decision-making , more targeted and individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . in this process , partnerships between health-care companies and technology companies will become increasingly important . but they are only the beginning of them . technologies that engage patients in their own health-care settings , and enable more seamless adherence to medications , have the potential to improve disease management , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs . additional breakthroughs , enabled by the convergence of science and technology , can be expected , particularly as unconventional players enter the health-care sector .
even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have been able to find ways around their control over the past decade . moreover , establishing controls on one type of inflow simply leads to its being disguised in other forms . when the incentive for money flows across borders is strong , it will find ways , abetted by multiple countries ’ proliferation with multi-country operations and expanding international trade – which serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls . capital controls have real costs , even if they do not stanch inflows . they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically or economically , or have sheer heft to get around the constraints .
in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the calculus of risk pricing and potential returns . in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . and , while major central banks plan or have already begun to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now . today , ’s ’s market is easy to explain in terms of fundamental factors : earnings are rising ; inflation has been kept at bay ; and the global economy appears to be experiencing broad , synchronized expansion .
more than once , he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by an erroneous belief that if he did not reduce the deficit , he may forfeit investor confidence ( the “ trust fairy ” ) . instead , the tories won outright majorities , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . just a week before the uk voted earlier this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , “ still wobbly ” from osborne ’s medicine , may “ decide that they should stay in bed . ” skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s assertion that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ” what could possibly have gone wrong – or , rather , right ?
to my right sat , dagan , who finished eight years as the head of mossad ; to my left sat dore of gold , a former academic , and a former israeli ambassador . to my right sat dagan , who was just over eight years as the head of mossad ; to my left sat dore of gold , a former academic , and a former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views on how best to guarantee israel ’s ’s ’s security and are worth recapitulating their respective argument . dagan countered that the army ’s ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s borders , regardless of where these borders are drawn . he insisted that israel can guard against threats from the east only if it maintains a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river , which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank .
rather , global interest rates are scraping through the floor , owing to gdp growth outside the us so sluggish . if a rip van winkle economist were to wake up today after a decades-long slumber and see only those numbers , he or she would assume that one-fifth of america ’s americans are unemployed and stand by front lines outside soup kitchens . the idea that an american wins in a global slump might sound like the sardonic ’s musing of some unreconstructed marxist brand in a dingy corner of faculty . but such a view is not ideological . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his famous first step on the moon surface 50 years ago .
new zealand successfully negotiated to include this specific emissions offset in her overall figures , neatly balancing the actual increase . while it was not planted for climate purposes , such trees soak up carbon dioxide . for safety ’s sake , the country has also bought up lots of foreign offsets , including by highly thatcher from russia and ukraine . from 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations increased by more than 1.4 million acres . but growing forests also cut new zealand ’s emissions in the 1990 ’s .
berlin – europe has finally seemed to be moving past its multiyear economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters opted for nostalgia for a nineteenth-century past over whatever promise that the twenty-first century might hold . there is plenty of evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . for any reason for optimism , there always appears to be a new cause for concern . so they have chosen to jump off a cliff in the name of eu sovereignty .
all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration has branded select countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often , they reject cooperation with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and they seek to transform other countries , rather than coerce their actions . his administration believes that the united states should talk to other governments , even though it disagrees profoundly with its own character . and he has shifted the focus of american foreign policy away from what countries do within their borders to how it suits them . new york – the bedrock outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach became abundantly clear in 2009 . he prefers acting with other countries to go it alone .
for the moment , all of this remains utopian . but if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see the countries that are not so far down the path of carbonization ( for example , large parts of africa ) or that leave it in time ( for example , india and pakistan ) able to become wealthy by aiding societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . this bank would also ensure that emissions trading did not run counter to the target of remaining within the global budget , for example through the full sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the outset of the sdgs . in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are far from being both fair and efficient ; major improvements would include the establishment of the central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emissions credits . so far , this is the case that all of this remains utopian .
gunter nooke , germany ’s eu commissioner for africa , has an even more unpalatable proposition : african countries should cede land to the european union as special economic zones , in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not just unethical ; they would not end the crisis . in many countries , politicians and media have been portraying refugees as a threat to security , cultural cohesion , and public resources . former us secretary of state hillary clinton has blamed her loss on donald trump in the 2016 presidential election and the brexit vote that preceded it on a public backlash against immigration , and recently proposed that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . humanitarian aid alone will not work , either except as a stopgap measure .
according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eliminated a waiting list for kidneys in that country without giving rise to an ethical problem . a charitable association of patients arranges a transaction , for a set price , and no one except a seller gains from it . a more systematic study of iranian systems is yet to be found . a 2006 bbc tv program showed many potential donors turned away because they failed to meet strict age criteria and others charged with visiting the psychologist . since 1988 , iran has had a government-sponsored , regulated system for purchasing kidneys .
moreover , american officials worry that the epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly created international monetary fund . with the advent of the cold war , us president harry truman ’s administration and america ’s congress acknowledged the urgency of european realignment . to this end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of the marshall plan funds for the first time . to this end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of marshall plan funds . the worry then was discrimination : european countries , it feared , would find it easier to import imports from one another but lacking dollars , still refusing to import imports from america .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and a presidential race in the united states demonstrated , among others , that public mistrust of global integration is on the rise . as former us trade secretary for costa rica , i know how difficult it is for countries , both developed and developing alike , to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to all of their peoples . the danger implied by such a scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity around the world for decades to come . that mistrust could derail new trade deals currently in work and impede future ones to begin .
chávez is the loser not only because he has granted farc moral support ( he has once described them as “ belligerents , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” not the terrorists , and has publicly named uribe an american stooge ) , but also because he believes that he has delivered covert military aid . that backing has emerged from chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which has weaponized venezuela ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in the hopes of building a regional anti-americanism . the uribe-lula-calderón ’s axis seems set to keep it there . there have been serious grounds over the past three years for believing that latin america is drifting through one of its regular bouts of left-wing destabilization , in light of the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president rafael correa and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent worldwide rise in commodity prices means that chile ’s traditional regional powerhouses , brazil and mexico , experienced their own economic booms .
for america today , the real question is only whether a brief , sharp downturn , or a more protracted one , slowdown . with house prices declining , fewer americans are both willing and able to continue their profligacy . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures – thereby bypassing the us economy ’s next president , just as it has done with the iraqi quagmire . its chances of succeeding are slim . even if america ’s federal reserve keeps hiking interest rates , its lenders will not rush to make more bad mortgages .
but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the eu . given the risk intrinsic to bet on policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly valuable human capital , particularly the well-educated young , to leave lagging regions for those offering more and better employment opportunities – could prove to be a critical tool of adjustment . but , with language training and executing something like the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs ( which aims to generate innovative “ learning economics , ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , upward mobility could be strengthened . but centralization carries its own cost .
“ it ’s not america , you need to work here ” -- is a popular joke . “ it ’s not america , you must work here ” -- is a popular joke . many new russians , working like machines 16 hours per day per week , look to their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found in asia 's tiger economies . culturally , we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem and inherited a lot from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and shared histories . many new russians , working like machines 16 hours per day , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found in asia 's tiger economies .
the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to suspend work in affected areas . far from moving to halt this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it . other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , are also feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . while suu kyi does not control the military , which is leading a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who has previously championed international acclaim – and the nobel peace prize – for her role in the struggle for democracy in myanmar .
in march , the united kingdom is likely to invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty , triggering a formal process of withdrawal from the eu . this will not be easy , with eu negotiators having already set a timeline for just 18 months . europe ’s politics next year will continue to consume the brexit negotiations . though eu-turkey relations currently are not at their best , a two-sided dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their shared interests , stemming not only from economic interdependence , but also from a refugee crisis and a collective struggle against terrorism . reaching an agreement that ensures the well-being of future eu-uk relations .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia is a model for “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use a word “ allah ” in their faiths ’ practices , a decision condemned across the muslim world for its negative portrayals of islam . moreover , members of najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that might imply stiff constraints on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their beliefs . transnational measures of press freedom and endemic corruption expose persistent deficits as well . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s ’s government has “ “ “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . according to america ’s ministry of human-rights report , curbs on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , the bombings of christian churches , and the ban on practices of shia islam to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims comply .
indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) reports reported , in uncharacteristically strong terms , that sea levels are virtually certain to continue to rise in the coming centuries or millennia to come . the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; the people ’ contributions to global warming via greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels ; and its impact on rising sea levels is another . moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the seas will rise . but the recent revelations about antarctica appear to be a different story . there are not many human activities , whose impact can reasonably be predicted decades , centuries , or even millennia , in advance .
it is the continent where al-qaeda started its war against the united states in 1998 by aerial bombing of american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their slumber at kenya ’s garsa university in 2015 . violent extremism and groups espousing it are threatening to reverse africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also for decades to come . addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies devastated , and relations fractured with terrorism . while such attacks have failed to garner the world ’s attention , most are failing to recognize that in the last five years alone , as many as 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence across africa . african countries are especially vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and an un-governed territory in which extremist groups can germany ate .
the giant rmb4 trillion stimulus ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises ( soes ) through directed bank lending , a sustained increase in china ’s growth in the face of a worldwide recession . but the price has been an increasingly severe misallocation of capital , resulting in growing portfolios of bad loans , whereas excessive chinese household saving has ballooned real-estate bubbles . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s ’s ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged demand impairment in the advanced countries . the analyst chi lo lucidly presents an image of macro success alongside micro failure . the first problem is china ’s economy , so dynamic on the surface , but so rickety underneath .
xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as a conception of “ a new type of great power relationship , ” ” ” ” ” one seeking to avoid what others have come to be the near-inevitability of prolonged conflict between rising powers ( china ) and established power ( america ) . for these reasons , the us faces a rising bilateral strategic-trust deficits . but , in america ’s view , this is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . on human rights , america argues that there are indeed fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and current systems . moreover , the us is insisting that it is not includes china ( as it did in the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise was facilitated by its access to american markets , together with global markets via american support for chinese accession to the wto .
still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes “ distort ” behavior and hamper wealth creation . the nonpartisan american congressional budget office ( cbo ) and the institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have shown clear that more than 80 % of the impact on corporate taxation falls on shareholders rather than on workers . and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually falls on employees rather than on capital . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different from competition among firms . but this is simplistic , at best .
thus , europe ’s welfare states face a severe dilemma . in holland , there can be no private medicine for all . doctors are not gods , but they increasingly play god , by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and their families who want them , and are even willing to pay for them . the only recourse to discontented patients is to leave the eu or go to the courts . there can be little doubt that holland spends substantial sums of money on caring for old people .
china ’s powerful central government overwhelms opposition from those displaced by new roads , bridges and dams , and for many years ran roughshod over environmental concerns and employee rights . sadly , it is far from clear that china ’s economic-development model can be exported universally . the parallels facing the old soviet union are striking . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport , because the courts forced the government to respect the rights of squatters on its suburb . some developing countries in asia are working differently .
the tax plan put forward on behalf of republican republicans by paul ryan , house speaker of the us house of representatives , calls to eliminate all tax deductions other than those for charitable donations and mortgage interest . likewise , falling into the think trap of tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand is easy . but congressional republicans may insist that they pay for cuts in personal-income tax by restricting deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bills . that change would raise the revenue level equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for very substantial cuts in individual tax rates . and even when revenues are raised , as there could be from airports , firms might be discouraged by relying on long-term pricing agreements .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . in kenya , by contrast , an innovative and expansive conservation project is well underway . begun in the aberdare mountains in central kenya , the “ rhine ark , ” originally conceived to protect the highly endangered black rhine from the ravages of poachers , is backed by the very people who might oppose it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming regions . and then there is the most frequent levy on all : that increased poaching is endangering species like elephants and rhinos . observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization .
there is nothing cyclical about the enduring aftershocks of a balance-sheet recession that is now apparent for almost five years . the personal-saving rate has stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from a low of 1.5 % in 2005 , but half of the 7.5 % average recorded in the final three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive . the convoluted logic behind this strategy is rather disconcerting – not only for america , but also for the global economy . indeed , the balance-sheet repair have barely begun for america ’s households .
europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , together with more recent chaotic depredations elsewhere , demonstrate that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . moreover , the desire to be admitted to the club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly the central and east european countries that later joined the european union . a second early success was that , by virtually all measures of international use , europe was instantly becoming the world ’s second global reserve currency . ecb president mario draghi deserves to be able to counterbalance germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline and the mediterranean ’s need for housing . more recent entries on the “ success ” ledger side include the advent of some periphery countries , notably spain , to reduce their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs .
hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to take hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . while germany continues to try to banish the specter of hyperinflation with rigid eurozone austerity measures , the eu ’s crisis-ridden crisis countries are facing a genuine threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . it is only a matter of time – no longer a matter of time – before economic destabilization breeds political instability . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems set to take hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . if she is unlucky enough , the crisis will come to a head in the early days of german elections , and all previous calculations could sound moot , because , despite germans ’ frustrations with europe , the electorate will punish harshly those who enabled europe to default .
such trials are also political symbols that have no place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . even today , owing to a wide variety of sophisticated means , we can detect very little nuclear tests in distant locations . the ctbt is necessary , owing to the role of nuclear tests on the development and improvement of nuclear weapons . it sets a new standard for the nuclear non-proliferation treaty obligations and verification . the treaty is also fair — it comprises the same rights and responsibility for all of its parties .
the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes have rested – probably too many – for any single leader . their ability to act is constrained by their own political milieu . the us needs leaders with sufficient mastery of detail , such as china ’s last premier zhu rongji , who can tell us not only how they will get the us out of a to z , but may actually be leading the way from b. or , if they exist at all , they seem to be constrained by dysfunctional political systems . looking around , leaders like italy seem to be extinct species . their best ability to act is constrained by their own political environment .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within the framework of international law . in fact , a palestinian state based on its 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for . the un security council has resolved in november of that year that year ’s acquisition of territory through war ” is unacceptable . today , palestinians are calling for statehood on a mere 22 % of territory that had been part of mandatory palestine until israel emerged unilaterally on areas far greater than the un general assembly ’s resolution resolution 181 in 1947 . successive security council resolutions and international treaties upheld this principle .
the politicians ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time for abandoning our own states and diplomacy to their destiny . indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a world that is networked by interests and shared is likely to prove more resilient than one crammed into an artificial – and increasingly constraining – box of the nation-state . in this sense , economic success in either china or india may well be those states ’ undoing , as middle political aspirations render current arrangements dysfunctional . the question for international governance is how to provide a rules-based framework within a world of competing organizational structures . conversely , the us may well find itself in a world whose eastern half are organized into strong authoritarian state structures , with the west embracing post-state association models .
indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . nonetheless , party rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will be achieved . the anti-corruption campaign is reflected in the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself of vested interests . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . many hope that such changes will help the ccp to become more efficient , strengthen its market role , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has ensnared many emerging countries .
another component of any strategy must be to counter is appeals and propaganda . curtailing the flow of recruits is an even more fundamental imperative . countries can do more to compel individuals to leave behind in iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list would help . but nothing would have a greater impact than turkey decides that it can no longer permit itself to become a conduit by enforcing united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . such flows should be closed down both by governments and by financial institutions .
in 1996 , the enemy was the communists ; in 1999-2000 , the chechens ; in 2003-04 , the " oligarchs " ; " in 2003-04 . now it is the us - the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by the “ color revolutions " to russia ’s hard-won stability . medvedev himself may find some , or all of this obnoxious , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that is hardly likely to go away overnight . political technologies means covertly sponsoring fake ngo politicians like bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( the us ) to forestall russia ’s version of ukraine ’s orange revolution and mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ enemy . ” we also need to understand the mechanics of russia ’s succession policy .
in a wider context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures runs steadily , if not at the desired pace . the visegrád group , cefta , the central european initiative has produced a thriving free trade system and increased investment flows among countries within the region . through learning each other ’s language , through cooperation based on shared values , shared interests , as well as historical ties , central europe has demonstrated what spectacular results could achieve . thus , our task has been felt not only to re-shape the nation-state , but to society as a whole , to its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . our newly liberated societies must now learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we have learned a new economic and political language .
the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water-catchment zones , as well as a national park , are vitally important to kenya . in 1988 , conservationists chose to finance and build a electrified fence to preserve the aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . the fence was designed to prevent intrusion from human population and park degradation . local farmers welcomed the initiative , which influenced the decision to expand the fence in order to surround an entire aberdare range . but it also protected farmers , whose crops were periodically destroyed by the marshall elephant and other wildlife .
first , social inequality has been rising unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union and the threat of an expansionist communism . but , with communism ’s collapse in its eurasian heartland , western ’s rich , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed for roll back the welfare state , causing inequality to surge rapidly . these protests have two major causes , and they have been present to them as well . first , social inequality has been rising unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union and the threat of an expansionist communism . that was tolerable as long as the overall pie was expanding , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended that .
so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries alike . in 1998 , the un estimated the combined value of its illicit drug trade to more than $ 400 billion , or about 7 % of world trade . the critics say that this figure is only half that – still a notable sum . critics tell that the figure is just half that – still a notable sum . in fact , colombia is far worse than chicago under al capone .
lacking adequate housing and electricity , few reenlisted , and many barren before completing their term . yet the railroad ’s first section – initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that fled the chinese border – was erected by forced labor , including by russian-speaking inmates and germany and japan ’s wartime prisoners , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were used , they were not nearly as enthusiastic as official accounts claim . tatiana insisted that bnp ’s construction begin in 1974 , a politically correct date , after which the “ clean labor ” of labor was deployed . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era construction showed what the dying soviet system was still capable of achieving .
whereas proportional representation will determine two-thirds of seats in the lower house , one-third will be decided by first-past-the-post voting in single member constituencies , where m5s will most likely lose out because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure its majorities . in fact , the party grouping , which will benefit the most from the current electoral system , will have to win roughly 40 % of the overall vote to secure its parliamentary majority . as it demonstrated with its electoral victories in 1994 and 2001 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been building coalitions . m5s ’s problem is that , owing to a new electoral law , it will have to win roughly 40 % of the overall vote to secure its parliamentary majority . and with support at around 26-29 % , italy remains popular despite its poor performance running the city-council of rome .
soon after taking office , modi ’s government announced its intention to implement price increases , even though officials made certain to emphasize that they are merely following through on an existing mandate . per india ’s critics have long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares , and freight charges for rail services , – which can not cover maintenance costs to ensure trains ’ safety and tracks – much less allow expansion and advancement in the service sector , reflected a government ’s inability to take tough choices . per india ’s code of political conduct , budget changes were deferred until after the elections . but , in the pre-election interim budget , the upa government finally got a bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in rail fares and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . it is true that coalition politics has precluded decisive action , with a railroad minister being summarized by his own party leader , whom upa was politically unable to confront – after trying to raise fares .
this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing the astonishing degree of cultural diversity . while non-muslims would gain free rein , owing to an passed bill , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus of showmanship that they are indian . coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic civic register of citizens , the authorities will be able to disenfranchise any indian muslims who are unable or unwilling to project his or her provenance in india . many indians , particularly the poor , lack any documentary evidence about when and where they were born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only in recent decades . under a approved bill , muslim immigrants may be declared illegal .
financial sanctions on russia are neither targeted nor fully credible . having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , especially given europe ’s close ties to russia through trade and energy . compounding the problem , nobody really understands the precise links among russian and european institutions and markets . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was totally unexpected . is europe today ready to cope with a similar failure of an important financial institution ?
gdp almost tripled over the last 20 years , but with real wages rising at less than one-half of that pace , growth has become decoupled from ordinary citizens ’ fate . south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled , fertility rates fell to its fourth lowest level among the advanced economies , and suicide rates are at their highest level in the oecd . south korea , for its part , is troubled by two key reasons for social distress . more than half of middle-income households spend more each month than they earn . the signs of social distress are proliferating .
whereas the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional arms , its capacity to fight terrorism is probably higher . this may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” ” tapping telephone lines , and identifying individuals deemed to be highly dangerous . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that enabled it to disavow bush ’s manichean worldview , which merely strengthened rather than undermined , an enemy of ’s fanaticism . police actions must be merciless , even if this implies more control and supervision . it is precisely to prevent the development of a collective security fear that we need to change the balance between security and freedom .
mulvaney has also devoted considerable time over the last two years to weaken the safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau has previously attempted to block some of the industry ’s worst abuses . while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney has received large campaign donations from paypal , making the bulk of its profits from lending at high interest rates to people with no alternative when it is in dire need of cash . ross should have read the mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half of the banks and reflect on soaring borrowing costs for low-income families . or it could simply have asked mick mulvaney , the acting white house chief of staff . as a government shutdown lengthened , stock prices for payday lenders rose .
more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promotion of democracy , and the establishment of international institutions . recent signs include chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , the ex-politburo member and former vice-premier of the central military commission on corruption charges , and japan ’s “ re-interpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to authorize the country ’s ability to provide military aid to its allies . but the tireless march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , to resolve their disputes in new , more creative ways , if the outcome is to be avoided . despite rising regional tensions that have inspired these moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to lead to a direct confrontation . seoul – a vast military-related revolution – is taking place throughout east asia .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years must be addressed with a fundamental source of fragility in the banking system , one that we can and must design from our existence . to do that , we must advance the condition of our financial technologies . to do so , we must advance the state of our financial technologies . new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years – has to do with a fundamental source of instability in our banking system , one that we can and must design from our existence . they can not raise much more capital in the form of a crisis ; so , in order to resume capital flight , they stop making new loans and call in their non-performing loans , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin .
so he encouraged an islamic dress code to build a giant mosque – one of the greatest , if not the largest , place in europe . yet , having enjoyed a huge subsidy from moscow , kadyrov has rebuilt grozny , providing it with some security . kadyrov , too , has catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . still , having enjoyed a vast subsidy from moscow , kadyrov has rebuilt grozny , providing it with some security . kadyrov , for his part , has rejected wahhabism , the ideological framework of jihadists .
the education system needs to be rebuilt almost from scratch , and with so many women anxious to revert to teaching , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians gain a powerful labor lobby . afghanistan poses special difficulties in reconstruction , because it is not a society with a strong political center . roads , airports , and communications systems , too , must be revitalized if trade is to recover . village housing needs to be delivered at the massive level , but it must be brought to heel . special attention should go to elementary schools and libraries outside of cities .
one popular explanation for the two banks ’ divergent approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experience . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , when the fed stood by idly as an economy collapsed , is a molding event to the realization of every american central banker . what i have just described is no mere hypothetical . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the very problems they face . indeed , it is a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank .
not one of his new york times ’ commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when the “ austerian ” of deficits cutting into us , predicted a major unemployment rate , or that economic growth would return to brisk rates . as a result , “ full recovery ” still looks a long way off , ” he cautions . on the contrary , “ the catastrophic turn toward austerity ” has destroyed millions of jobs and dashed many lives , ” ” he has argued , with america ’s congress exposing the americans to the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts . “ “ and i ’m beginning to fear that this may never happen . ” i raise all of this because krugman took a victory lap in his end-2014 book column on obama ’s restoration .
a small operating in finland is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes will spring up globally . borrowing from the open-software movement , revolution sänen and his colleagues wants to make the idea and fundamental designs free and encourage many companies everywhere to implement it locally . even when many are in trouble , it ’s ’s ’s ’s probably not the best time to launch a new car company , either . yet , while the new car market has slowed dramatically , it could be a good time to launch a commercial replacement for gasoline engines with an electric one . the group , led by brexit , is being hailed – now !
consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise way to measure whether and how to what extent a government is efficient . the united states , with a government that can hardly be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . but i believe that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” if the criterion of effectiveness is the ability to reach all of society ’s goals , we are likely to never really find such a thing . in comparison , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya look like the heights of its success .
simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . in 2003 , the african union and the new partnership for africa ’s ’s ’s development began to implement the continent-wide strategy of developing and using science and technology to transform the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and integrate into the global economy . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains . these and other funding streams have helped african researchers to develop drought-resistant crops , manufacture vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education . africa ’s leaders pooled their science sources before .
london – five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers , the world has yet to address the fundamental cause of the ensuing financial crisis – an excess of debt . official forecasts in the spring of 2009 predicted neither a sluggish recovery , nor that an initial crisis that had been essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel a knock-on crisis across europe . and that is why the economic recovery has advanced far more slowly than anyone expected ( in some countries it did not come at all ) . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to foresee the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was assured so long as inflation remained low and stable . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , the us failed to foresee just how painful its consequences would be .
the big divide is that the uk will lose its vote at the table . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will allow the uk to stay in the eu at all but name . and for some of those in the “ leave ” camp , it is a way to exit without falling off a cliff edge . that will not be a free-trade deal , but rather a political declaration on where the two sides are hoping to quit . the third stage agreement in phase two will center around a roadmap for uk-eu relations after 2021 .
fourth , europeans find it difficult to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or homosexuals . the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia , as well as salafi extremists and theological moderates . muslims find it hard to see how we can believe that our societies are civilized when pornography and drunkenness are openly on display . al qaeda ’s agenda is just as much about creating a new islamic caliphate as it is about waging jihad against the west . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as an individual ’s attachment to his or her god ; muslims perceive it as organizing social principle .
with the collapse of the soviet union , russia has not only lost its standing as a world power ; within europe , it has been forced to retreat to a frontier that it has extended to the west since peter great , ultimately to the elites and thuringia . indeed , its 2010 elections marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which vanquished its effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keep ukraine in the russian camp . yanukovych had always been the kremlin ’s ally , the russian people ’s party . so why , then , did the eu press for an association agreement , with no bid for ukraine anything comparable to what russia had offered ? the answer may be found in the relationship between europe and russia .
the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism correlates with weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . less obviously , a country does not want misguided or nonsensical change ; it wants investment , which appears to the financial sector as productive . what is required for high performance ? what is needed for high performance ? for employees to develop , they need to be imbedded in a stimulating workplace , with new problems to be solved , harder mastered tasks , added capability to strive .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . and , third , laws intended to protect private information should be reevaluated in order to ensure that they are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . at the same time , new public-interest concepts are needed for regulating new public information channels , such as social networks . first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . second , standard views on business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to it firms ’ monopoly power .
as france ’s recent moves demonstrate , intervention nowadays demands nothing more than a unilateral decree on humanitarian or counterterrorism goals , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection to the ongoing united nations deliberations . to see how this shift occurred is to see why , more often than not , such intervention has failed to attain its aims . indeed , decades of unrelenting intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with the recent operations justified by their achievability rather than merit . geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in as many years – this time in the central african republic – interventionism that appeared discredited after america ’s invasion of iraq appears to have returned as the acceptance of the norm in international affairs . at the same time , a military operation might refer to the un security council , but only after the fact , when the council ’s decisions can no longer influence events on the ground .
the simplicity and the elegance of micro and macro models makes them useful in explaining the price mechanism and equilibrium or imbalances of key aggregate economic variables . both coase and krugman bemoan dereliction of their occupations ’s patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith – that has appreciated grand and unifying patterns of political economics and moral philosophy . but both models are unable to describe or investigate key market participants ’ actual behavior . the contemporary obsession with the reductionist and mechanical models appears to have driven the profession from theory to ideology , putting it out of touch with the real economy . he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failures , because they mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models for truth .
the next meeting ( policeman 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , early december . after all , such no-strings-attached databases do not only make it easier to share them ; they allow them to steal . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the wto ’s conference on biological diversity ( mef ) , the leading treaty that regulates access to biodiversity . the question of how to regulate access to the genetic sequence of data is now cropping up in international debates , including at the world health organization and the organization for food and agriculture ( fao ) . participants at cop 13 must target the need to protect resource providers ’ rights .
as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , for it must generate – not only copy and adapt – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organization . demand growth at a pace that has been within any preceding decades would ultimately result in accelerating growth in real gains and real wages , if only us policymakers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging measures to “ protect ” output and employment . but for everyone but bush – and those left behind by the demand lag – this represents an extraordinary opportunity . if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , especially given the one powerful impact of the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications to make it far easier to participate in the global division of labor now centered around america . demand growth at a pace that has been visible in any previous decade would be seen as extremely satisfactory suddenly insufficient , and bush is mired in blame ( with some justice ) for the slack in the us .
at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and high levels of inequality – this must include the use of the platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and high levels of inequality – this must include the use of platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . this is propelling the latest transition in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling more wisely , but also on becoming smarter about what to scale . rather than focusing on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations , as corporations have done in the past , it has – and , like impossible foods – been working to help reduce overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . earlier this year , the artificial-meat producer beyond meat celebrated its rapturous stock-market debut .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s 11th ministerial conference . with the united states having historically pitched the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to be in stark contrast to any other one . this time , however , the outcome might become even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even the kind of symbolic agreement that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign . the wto ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ministerial gatherings are never an easy ones . some kinds of deals are typically delivered , but only at the last moment , and its language is often vague .
similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations have played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws are helping to advance nationalist narratives that can demonstrate very handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . poland , for one , has accrued substantial electoral support , owing partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . poland , for its part , has introduced such a law in 1998 . there are more extreme cases than that of poland .
as is often pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there will be ample scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ” instead , reform proposals opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for leading banks , as well as pre-funding for deposit insurance by a special-purpose levy on banks . this would allow capital buffers to be formed in good years , which might then draw down in the wrong years . admittedly , there are difficulties with all proposals limiting the scale of “ riskless ” banking , particularly with respect to the global economy with free capital mobility . there seems little appetite for proposals to vary by capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically .
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in extending insurance coverage to the millions of americans who would n’t otherwise have it had . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over its intellectual property . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is no guarantee . and , contrary to his critics ’ warnings , he has not pressured health-care costs ; indeed , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward .
likewise , cutting fiscal support ( via government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and enable resources to be re-directed to new industries that facilitate services and urban employment ; but this would worsen , at least at first glance , today ’s demand shortfall . robust aggregate demand is always essential to a successful transformation ; indeed , it is not . if both the old and new sectors of the us economy fall into slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline , and structural adjustment will stall . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have shown conclusively that an economy in transition requires strong aggregate demand to pull its resources into new industries . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting to achieve transformation via austerity is not the way forward .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . with innovations in digital payments barreling ahead , such questions are now commanding the world economic forum ’s attention and other international institutions . with innovations in digital payments barreling ahead , such questions are now commanding the world economic forum ’s attention and other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process is on the verge of an end to failure . while reaching a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to preserve even the façade of a “ peace process ” that has been all but a process and no peace . negotiations are failing for a few reasons , starting with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including america . and that may not be such a bad thing , at least for the time being . if anything , israel has been accelerated to settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while escalating its demands , particularly concerning the stationing of israeli forces in the jordan valley .
vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of yukos , and , as a lawyer to defend khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , following his arrest in march 2003 . by that time , aleksanyan had been critically ill with aids , for whom treatment had been withheld . by that time , aleksanyan had been critically ill with aids , for which treatment had been withheld . vasily aleksanyan was yukos ’s executive vice president , and as a lawyer , defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , following his arrest in march 2003 . he was subsequently disbarred , and he was himself under house arrest in april 2006 .
as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text as the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should remove american requests for retaining us tariffs after the treaty is signed , and for unilaterally re-imposing tariffs should the american concludes that china is not honoring an agreement . that timeline demands that the two sides begin to take symbolic and substantive steps promptly . and it should add a commitment that china will execute an agreement in a manner that is “ consistent with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ” moreover , they need this by the end of the year to prevent further deterioration from major us tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 .
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by going through the well-worn path of industrialization . peasants have become factories of factory workers , a process that has underpinned not only an unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also constitutes a wholesale revolution in social and political organization . over time , manufacturing ceded its location to the services sector . labor movements have led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . the progression of manufacturing industries – textiles , steel , automobiles – has emerged from the ashes of traditional artisans and guild schemes – transformed agrarian societies into urban ones .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
indeed , when compared to other sources of energy , nuclear power ranks higher than oil , coal , and natural gas systems in terms of maternal fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima disaster . while only a few involved fatalities , those that have collectively killed more people than have died in commercial american airline accidents since 1982 . another nuclear-power accidents index – this one including costs beyond death and property damage , for example , injury or irradiated employees and malfunctions that resulted from shutdowns or leaks – has been documented 956 incidents ranging from 1942 to 2007 . there are 57 accidents since the chernobyl catastrophe in 1986 .
russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than washington or new york . unlike some of its predecessors as chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany , is wary of russia ’s strategic designs . there can be little doubt that both russia and china are likely to benefit , at least in the short run , america ’s abdication of its leadership . this may no longer be so simple , once the us is no longer perceived as a reliable protector and fear in china turns into a panic . some people , for their part , are not too bothered by this .
for uribe and his opposition allies , the main objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . for uribe and his opposition allies , the main objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . negotiators decided that an unconditional recourse to justice would be impossible to implement . but , if a deal were negotiated well , the end results yielded substantially more benefits than costs . and that would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a wide range of social and economic issues , including issues affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and millions of internally displaced persons over a half-century of fighting .
on the contrary , helping the syrian kurds to do so was a good idea , for they were effective fighter jets with strong support from their own people ; and they were probably not likely to survive under the caliphate of isis . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to cut off the city to dust . it was also wrong to call into effect the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because forces opposed assad ’s lack of popular support , and america was not prepared to help them win that support . elsewhere , it is right to back up south korean and japanese defenses , but evidently wrong to threaten a nuclear war . the american , for example , was mistaken to invade iraq in 2003 , but it was right to join the struggle against isis and save yazidis from the massacre .
the trouble began at the end of the cold war , when the implosion of bankrupt communist ideology was complacently interpreted to the triumph of markets . like communism was discarded , so was the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions can be organized . the individual became the ultimate agent of change , – conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such an individual ’s identity comes not from class interests or other sociological qualities , but from a market logic that dictates the maximization of self-interest , be it producer , consumer , or voter turnout . indeed , economics rested on a pedestal and enshrined in institutions like central banks and competitiveness-competition agencies , intentionally separated and rendered independent from politics .
madrid june ’s turkish general election has sent a potent message : turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s democracy remains intact . with their votes cast , turkey ’s fidesz party has denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority it needs to amend its constitution . indeed , while there have been some grievances regarding transparency during the campaign process , the country ’s democracy has prevailed , with an astonishing 86 % of eligible voters turns out , a rate rarely seen in europe . the rest of the world , and particularly the european union , should take note . moreover , by giving peoples ’ democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the vote , they enabled the party to enter into parliament for the first time , with intra-country representation , not only in kurd-majority areas .
to distribute the burden more equitably , germany has attempted to have a euro-quota system instituted in order to allocate claimants among eu member countries . germany will have to cope with the effects of this refugee wave over several years . but germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ” frequently , arab families are sending their minors into germany in the not-unfounded hope that they will secure the right of other family members to follow later . if an app is to be successful , a refugee has the right to join its or her family members just as well .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race needs need to understand that national opinion polls wo n’t provide a precise picture of how the election might turn out . in nearly every state , the nominee , who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote , is awarded to 100 % of its vote . every state is awarded a certain number of votes in an electoral college based on the size of its population . in nearly every state , the nominee , who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote , is awarded to 100 % of its vote . the candidate who crosses the threshold of 270 electoral college wins .
new york – the prospect that america ’s federal reserve will begin exiting zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fear of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ currencies , bond markets , and the stock market . but , though the fed ’s prospect of raising interest rates is likely to produce major turbulence in emerging-market countries ’ financial markets , the risks of outright crises and distress are more limited . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states and the ensuing likely rise in the value of the us dollar might , fearful , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . because all of the borrowing trillions of dollars in us dollars over the past several years , they will now face an increase in the real local-currency value of those debts , while rising american rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby driving up debt-service costs further . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 that ending its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy came close , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” has sent shock waves through many emerging countries ’ financial markets and economies
on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france was powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding the commercial portfolio . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france was powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding the trade portfolio . on the other hand , despite being right about iraq , chirac became isolated , the " isolation " that grows out of the eu because he , too , failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush . chirac has compounded his errors over iraq in his approach to the new european commission . faced with american unilateralism , he has failed to promote realistic multilateral solutions .
urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation for all . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation , and drainage , power , and environmental facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – rely on uninterrupted supplies . and the expanding global population – set to reach over 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources still further . governments should take the lead in safeguarding vigilant management and sustainable uses of scarce water resources .
while iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad has recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . ahmadinejad has benefited from massive oil-price spikes , resulting in an unprecedented increase in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings . but iran has faced similar economic hardship before – in the 1980 ’s – oil exports collapsed substantially amid the country ’s eight-year war against iraq ; and , in 1986-2000 , global oil prices were extraordinarily low , coping with them relatively well . four factors have made the oil embargo especially urgent today . first , prohibiting oil exports is more painful when world oil prices are soaring .
israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in denouncing its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s geopolitical changes are radically positive . ultimately , across-the-board nuclear equality can merely boost iran ’s nuclear claims . india and pakistan , in contrast to israel , committed to a strategy of nuclear opaqueness , both view themselves as nuclear states and want the world to accept that status . israel ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities , while the npt party , the israelis will say , but it has also placed israel ’s destruction high on its agenda .
whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest step toward floating its currency , one must admire its strategic brilliance . protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap enormous punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have grabbed flat-footed . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( permitting the yuan to rise to 2 % against the us dollar ) is that no one can tell when , or what will come next . but no one knows whether china ’s ’s baby step is the beginning of something much bigger , because china ’s ’s authorities hint one day to deny another another another . protectionists in the united states and europe itching to slap enormous punitive tariffs on chinese goods have grabbed flat-footed .
one of his close political allies recently declared that the un security council approve of military interventions in syria , france could envision ” participating in that effort . on the contrary , his intent will be to emerge as a reliable and unsurprising partner . hollande has backed military intervention in libya in 2011 , alongside his condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . and here , obama , in particular , will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . hollande is probably no less “ america ” friendly to america than was sarkozy , considered france ’s most pro-us president .
hence , a keynesian solution : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and reduced taxes ) to keep the economy from ever approaching the precipice at which deflation becomes possible . deflation -- a steady decline in prices -- gave firms and consumers a powerful incentive to cut back on spending and hoard cash . but if this is an issue resolved over the last fifty years , why is it haunting the us now ? it diminished the ability of firms and banks to service their debt , and possibly triggered a chain of great bankruptcies that would erode confidence in the financial system , provide further incentives to hoard it . such powerful incentive to hoard rather than spend can keep demand low and fall and unemployment high and rise -- for a far longer time than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician or economist has ever dared contemplate .
but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises are testing that systems like never before . millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are threatened with exploitation , abuse , and even worse . and of the 50 million children living outside their own countries , or have been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , and face new threats to livelihoods and well-being . this is not rhetoric ; it is reality . the united nations – with its support from countries like sweden and work through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef ’s – mitigates suffering whenever and wherever it can .
given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to lay the bar high ground , thereby putting pressure on others to ramp up their own donations . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will back the process . to this end , a african coalition of african countries , with support from the un economic commission for africa and the new climate economy , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive and sustainable growth path . overcoming the formidable challenge that addressing climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un secretary-general ’s un climate summit next month should mark only such a moment , with countries committing to step up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement to achieve net-zero emissions by mid-century .
widespread instability in social relations – most important , but not only in employment terms – is slowly becoming intolerable to a growing segment of the population in many advanced countries , and not only in europe . and there can not even be a stable economic order – at least not in democratic countries – when electorates are rejecting its underpinnings . nonetheless , the realignment of the wealthy , developed countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists such as milton friedman , which began in 1970 , have broken down with all that now . rejecting the european union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s constitutional treaty , french and dutch voters , according to all evidence , was more a rejection of unregulated globalization than a rejection of europe . capitalism could be reshaped after world war ii , because it was buttressed by three necessary types of regulation : social security that served as principal stabilizer ; keynesian tools to counter domestic cyclical downturns ; and universal high-wage policies aimed at stimulating general consumption , without which the genius of capitalism – mass production – does n’t work .
in his influential 1998 book inflation-targeting targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target rate of inflation , because it “ communicates ” the central bank ’s intentions ” ” ” ” ” ” ” which would “ “ reduce uncertainty . ” that , in turn , may produce a sense of a real risk . the announced rate should be substantially positive , writing out , because , if officials try to get it close to zero , any mistake might result from deflation that “ “ “ might ” endanger the financial system and precipitate an economic contraction . ” at the same time , in an age of internet rumors and fake news , the world today may well look a bit unmoored of history . inflation-targeting has other effects , all too , seemingly more so on central bankers ’ minds .
china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations . with its investments in such dual-use technologies , china is seeking more than to compete american commercially ; it is also looking for more military and geopolitical power . and it has deployed a wide range of methods – including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a precondition for joint ventures with chinese partners , avoidance of export controls , and regulatory harassment , to acquire such technologies from america ’s trade and other trading partners . this places it in direct competition with the united states – which currently leads in these industries – in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial and military applications . berkeley , with its ambitious made in china 2025 strategy , made china a clear aim at securing global economic leadership in the advanced tech sector .
the berlin wall fell , bringing germany ’s reunification , and yugoslavia into disintegration . but an american that is relatively less reliant on foreign markets , possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than other eu countries would have done better than most in a contracting world economy . already , chinese financial markets have endured , while those within the us have clung to their own . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” surrendered to the czech republic and slovakia , both of which – along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . today , a full-scale trade war would damage all economies .
the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , as we are working our way out of a bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) , and it back to markets . it would boost confidence in iran , enabling the us to increase its current competitive inflows of inward foreign direct investment . the treaty would promote stability in the iranian economy and contribute to stabilizing europe , the us currency . most important , the eu ’s fiscal treaty promises to ensure eurozone-wide budgeting . ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , should we ever need it .
in europe , legislation to protect personal data is neither comprehensive nor a large part of the rest of the world , lacking even rudimentary safeguards . after exploring this issue with legislators in several countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many lack the full grasp of the myriad issues that must be considered . in the short run , young companies should view ethics not as a marketing gimmick , but as a core concern . all organizations should be investing in ethics officers , or some sort of review process involving people who can assess all the implications of a great-sounding notion . addressing this is a tough subject , and doing so is hindered by lobbying efforts and incomplete information .
the young at shahbag are mainly urban , educated , and the middle class ; hifazat derives its support mainly from the rural poor . but all too often , clichés are becoming established because they are true . traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , indian intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathizers approach shahbag closer to shahbag protesters than to hifazat counter-protesters . but it must navigate a difficult path , because both points of view retain significant public support .
cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but neither has been adopted universally enough to challenge the current order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion additional monthly active users , facebook could change this . now that the company has spurned its gauntlet , governments should use the opportunity to advance a pattern of digital currency that serves the public good . even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone . the real bombshell , however , has been the sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing international monetary system , not at some later date , but right now .
why , then , has the great recession and the disastrous fukushima daiichi disastrous meltdown in japan failed to elicited a similar response today ? before becoming soviet leader in 1985 , relations among cold war superpowers struck rock bottom . economic constraints , along with the chernobyl catastrophe , helped spur us to action . reagan and i have been able to develop a reservoir of constructive spirit through continuous outreach and face-to-face interactions . what appears to lack today are leaders with boldness and vision to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
august is the traditional month in which parliaments recess for the summer . across europe , italy is not only british prime minister tony blair , who is accused of “ presidentialism ” nowadays . italy offers a moment to examine why italy and germany are so enfeebled . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charge in germany ’s current electoral campaign . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charge in germany ’s current german election campaign .
as long as capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets held by national governments and are readily irreversible , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer . first , a new set of external disciplines are coming hand-in-hand with a special neoliberal model of economic development that remains stubbornly untested and forecloses the development strategies that have worked in the past , with others likely to work in the future . the tapering of national autonomy in formulating a development strategy is a cost to which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward . indeed , by drawing attention to internal structural reforms in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency over short-term capital inflows , increasing rather than then reduce systemic risks .
and all of these clichés have been reproduced through barra ’s appointment at gm . cnn , for example , has covered a story by mentioning barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never apply with a man at the top , for whom , presumably hard work , talent , ambition , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack ” . such clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in ceos ’ case , they are also reducing their value to their companies . many news stories of female ceos and other high-achieving women are encoded by a set of reliable clichés : they lucked to their new roles ( and thus “ do n’t deserve ” ) ; inherited them from male relatives or spouses ( and thus do n’t really hold the reins of power ) ; or will not be there for a long time . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender charges that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened .
dynasties come and go , but in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding . few observers expected that china would suddenly turn into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade was nonetheless disappointing to witness . few observers expected china to turn abruptly into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . dynasties come and go , but in 2021 the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
more recently , elections in europe ’s postcommunist countries have brought groups into power , whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to compare hamas with any of these political strengths . nevertheless , one must wonder about a victorious movement with quite a handful of elected members in israeli prisons and others who are not likely to receive permission to enter a country in which they were elected in order to ensure that a new parliament can not function properly . all of this tells us three things about the future of democracy . first , elections rarely deal with fundamental issues .
that is why lugovoi is being asked for his autograph . the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia can jangle within ordinary russians ’ breast without the slightest dissonance . but only one such patriot ” has been accorded the honor of being permitted to fulfill that act . evidently , we face a mystery of russians thought that has proven to be so unfathomable to others , so unyielding to every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians have written at length . that is why lugovoi is being asked for his autograph .
· removal of barriers to opportunity , governments need to address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that are effectively criminalized . moreover , given that inequality largely begins in childhood , governments need to invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . only by encouraging the establishment of human capital from an early age can we ensure that inequalities within a single generation are not passed on to the next one . and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to the next , it creates persistent traps of inequality .
some , it should be emphasized . spain ’s labor costs have fallen substantially since the beginning of the crisis . greece has slashed its spending level by larger sums , relative to gdp , than any country in europe since world war ii . other reforms , in particular , will be hotly debated . italy , for its part , has grasped crucially important reforms in areas such as pensions .
but the aftershocks linger : household-debt loads still amounted to 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) and personal-saving rates have averaged just 3.9 % last year ( versus 7.9 % since 1970 to 1999 ) . understandably , fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have failed to take the bait of their monetary and fiscal authorities . two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families borrowed freely have long since burst . instead , they have cut back on spending . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption spending have averaged only 0.8 percentage points over the last five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in us consumer demand growth during the post-world war ii period .
though his motivations , at least partly , may have been a yearning for social justice , perón was in effect bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and wealth . perón ’s government had nationalized banks and railroads , raised the minimum wage and enhanced living standards , lowered the national debt ( for a while ) , and revived the economy . he was just as good a word , not a few years ago , but a few years later . perón was nationalized the banks and the railroads , raised the minimum wage and enhanced living standards , brought down the national debt ( for a while ) , and revived the economy . he became much less reliant on foreign trade , even though the move toward autarky undermined growth , causing the country to lose ground among the world ’s richest .
the cap will probably become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers as it will . it is not hard to imagine the next us administration – whenever it is about perceiving the cap as an obstacle to faster economic growth . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil set to continue for the foreseeable future . the cap will probably become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . in the end , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 .
part of this can be explained by misunderstanding about the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . while the experts have spent the past two years propounding this thesis that the market has quietly reinstated the older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and hence good for equities . a strange conventional wisdom has developed in both the inflationary 1970 ’s and the 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad for share prices . while the experts spent the past two years propounding this thesis that the market has quietly reinstated the older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and hence good for equities . here is one message from markets that have been quick to dismiss , even for non-investors : political confidence may now be at a low ebb in europe ; firms and consumers may be shell-shocked by last recession and grim about their future ; but judging by market behavior the years ahead may resemble a stable and prosperous 1950s than the crisis-ridden decade between 1973 and 1989 .
* sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ;
the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive growth in 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand , for example ) . now the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . the imf has mobilized massive sums of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors attempting to withdraw their funds . its medicine has done little to rescue the economy , and its money supply has declined . currencies have collapsed .
nevertheless , emphasizing obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than trying to distraction from him ; it is also sending the message that the domestic-policy impasse is not his fault . the obama administration knows the iron law of american policy – that ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy , stupid ” – just like anyone else . election-year tactics aside , america ’s voters are right . so expect a lot of foreign-policy news in the months ahead . obama has implemented far better on foreign policy than domestic policymaking , all the more surprising given the faintest hand he has made : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as its economic model .
but it is only one facet of europe ’s urgent need to import people from africa and asia . the root cause of all of these developments is europe ’s populist shrinkage . europeans , too , will see the dismantling of their welfare states and social-security systems ; a cherished “ european model ” of pensions , health care , and unemployment benefits being replaced by the despised and widely feared american model . this is not , needless to say , because europeans crave the rigors of america ’s less cosseted social preconditions , but because it ’s the only way europe ’s governments will stay afloat financially . the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have been debating for ten years or more is now exploding .
the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short-lived military interventions are imperfect and to be remotely efficient requires a degree of international solidarity that is generated only under exceptional circumstances . should a rogue state be allowed to break free of its provocations ? and they watch with gaidar lee at how europe , japan , and america , rather than acting together , display the weakness of france . the trouble here is : in most cases , it will . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short of military interventions are imperfect and to be remotely efficient requires a degree of international solidarity that is generated only under exceptional circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . europe ’s policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness , ” ” ” ” ” ” and genuinely seem to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . but us economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , has been fueled by productivity growth , rather than the capacity to capture a growing share of global markets . whereas us imports must obviously be financed with exports , the eu ’s shift toward trade competitiveness is drawing attention away from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth . this largely explains why germany is routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy .
china currently controls the entire value chain of electric cars , including supplies of cobalt , an essential raw materials in battery manufacturing . as a result , china generates 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells , the united states 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ” ” ” ” ” in nevada ) , and europe is just 4 % . this would be a momentous shift . and the more significant battery cells are to the global value of electric cars , a stronger agglomeration effect . nonetheless , europe could still develop battery production through recycling of old electronics , develop new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking , particularly their fiscal thinking , to put the people first . but breakthrough tech companies like apple , facebook , and twitter also depend crucially on those with access to well-funded education systems . governments that are making it their central objective of maximizing human well-being end up not only encouraging higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics . governments need to reduce bureaucratic red tape so that business leaders can take on more risk . and , while there is increasing “ tech ” for good ” sectors in europe , it will succeed only if they support up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public outlays .
for example , it is untenable in rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment are effectively allowed to block an agreement to open up new markets for services and manufactures , which account for more than 90 % of employment . in developing countries , pro-trade voices might help to turn the debate over opportunities to global integration , rather than emphasizing exceptions . all countries will need to give ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden on itself . the initiative will have to come from the top if the case is to be made within each country for more open markets and help make it available to those facing adjustment . pro-trade forces can speak out as part of the political process .
inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq and a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states does not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . but iranian critics of the intervention seem to believe that there is a middle way . iran has already been counanced by maliki ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi , and , if a wider policy reconsideration is needed to quell the threat , so be it . indeed , iran ’s prompt support for iraq ’s shia-led government has been partly intended to preempt competition from its regional adversaries . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are mounting that regional overreach could trigger a long list of dangerous consequences .
that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during harvard . by the time the storms made landfall , many people had already evacuated . in houston , authorities were ready for harvard in part because of the lessons learned from hurricane katrina that devastated new orleans . the impact of the lessons learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , disheartened by lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans .
for catalan separatists , this means that they now face what the political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . and why , then , would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent this from happening ? given that the status quo is volatile , with independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term in the near term . if catalonia wants to exit spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ?
trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , who was tasked with brokering the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , seems to grasp this . even that futile scenario might turn out to be optimistic , for it assumes that the talks are getting off the ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both sides – the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept . that resolution demanded “ that israel immediately and totally suspend all settlement activity in the occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem ” – activities that amount to “ flagrant violations ” under international law . such activities are not only unfair ; they are a violation of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( america , then headed by barack obama abstained ) .
the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . in doing so , however , china is not openly challenged by the foundations of the liberal order . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called one belt , one road ) – which xi christened “ the century ’s project ” – is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choices to cement commercial ties with the rest of eurasia and africa , to seize the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” the remarkable communiqué by world leaders participating in the bri forum in beijing this past month has committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promote “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” ” and gender empowerment . and they are not ready to take risks to the foundations of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth .
to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu has a democratic deficit to widen without having clearly defined fundamental rights . the question , then , is whether new leaders , as early as next month , succeed in forging a new push to adopt the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires . part of ii of the stalled mff , the charter of fundamental rights , can now be put aside . part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is simply a compendium of existing eu treaties , which , because such treaties will remain in force , regardless of whether they belong to a new eu document , may decoupled from the rest . the best way forward is by focusing on the essentials .
in the long run , this is fundamentally an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law . but for europeans , there is a more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance is needed today than ever before ; and it is far stronger with britain in europe and an equal partner with america . just as the world is changing and opening up across national boundaries , which values will govern the twenty-first century ? this is true of the peoples of europe . forget about the short-term electoral politics of the us or the eu .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . taken together , such cases highlight the high level of state capture – a form of corruption , rife with former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors use insiders to win control over public institutions and assets . likewise , just a few months ago , two police vice foreign ministers , transportation minister knité , and a former director of the state-owned petroleum corporation were all brought to court on charges of selling state assets to private companies at a loss .
a minority coalition comprising the greens would force the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policies that would be unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability to die linke ( the left ) and the greens to block legislation . the fdp , for its part , would want to participate in such a government for precisely this reason . a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . and merkel herself would attempt to disavow her minority coalition with the fdp to avoid becoming dependent on it .
one government minister at the cdf has noted that the one million chinese tourists who go abroad have used their credit cards to purchase some $ 1 billion worth of goods that they can not obtain at home ( while noting an irony that some of these europeans and american branded goods are actually manufactured in china ) . though beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much poverty remains so far . it is revealing that to achieve their five-year plan to eradicate poverty by 2020 , which requires fewer than 55 million poor people to reduce poverty levels by just $ 354 per year , or less than one dollar per day . chinese corporations ’ high level of debt might serve as a source of financial instability , even though several us officials have been stressed that they are not worried . chinese corporations ’ high level of debt might serve as a source of financial instability , even though several us officials have been stressed that they are not afraid .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historical record of failed one-party regimes might benefit from reading leon trotsky , who have known something about revolutions . dictatorships are thought to be indestructible before they decline ; trotsky reminds us , but its demise is viewed as inevitable once it was overthrown . yet the track record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to prove calamitous . yet the track record of democratic transitions since 1974 indicates that regime change in china is unlikely to prove calamitous . yet another explanation is fear of contemplating the unknown .
liu realized that neusoft may link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a wide range of digital sensors . neusoft ’s devices looked like little personal computers with sensors attached . neusoft ’s facilities sound like little personal computers with sensors . after moving on to manufacture automobile audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , started hearing complaints by local hospitals concerning the high cost of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machinery ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , and the toshiba ) . suddenly , a new venture was born , and the company was born .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is being called the shots not only in europe , but throughout all of europe . but , in foreign-policy terms , postwar western germany – and , later , reunified germany – was entirely predictable : never against the west ; always , for more europe . inside germany , there have been endless debates over german identity – what one historian called the “ continual dispute ” on what being german might mean . now , the “ berlin republic ” is extremely secure about its own identity – and seemingly at sea in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for this change , but they are here to stay .
while only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of informational startups survive for four or more years , those that do have managed to produce breakthrough innovations . as he put it , “ we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful risks … we need to forgive the errors that were made because someone tried to act aggressively in a company ’s interest . ” startup companies exemplifies the potential benefits of risk-taking . while only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive for four or more years , those that do have managed to produce breakthrough innovations are well known . and the oversight that warped kelvin ’s estimate – an option that fluid motion could efficiently transport heat within the earth ’s interior – has proved critical to seeing plate tectonics and continental drift .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the greatest threat is coming from netanyahu .
according to putin , he rooted for trump ( but , of course , did n’t interfere in trump ’s name ) , because they shared a desire to improve the bilateral relationship . now , more than ever before , putin needs america as a kind of friendship . though he has been reelected in a landslide in march , his approval ratings have since plummeted to around 45 % . russians resent mounting economic insecurity brought about by us sanctions , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also been inflamed by the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , covering an increase in the retirement age .
in south korea , the imf has urged its sales to the country ’s banks to american investors , even though koreans have been managing their own economies impressively for four decades , with higher growth , more stability , and no systemic shock that has marked america ’s financial markets with this kind of frequency . of course , wall street ( whose interests america ’s treasury represents ) profits from capital market liberalization : they make money as capital flows in , how it flows out , and in restructuring that occurs amid successive havoc . whether american investors had bigger banking expertise in emerging markets might be debatable ; that they had more tax avoidance expertise is not . in some cases , american firms bought off the banks , held on to them until korea recovered , and then resold them , reaping billions in capital gains . whether american investors had bigger banking expertise in emerging markets was perhaps debatable ; that they had more tax avoidance expertise .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , has died . just a year earlier , in a poll on a leading philosophy web site , parfit had been voted by the leading living anglophone philosopher . getting into a philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he had already thought about every reaction i could make to his arguments , considered a few possible replies , and knew the objections of every reply as well as the best counters to those objections . parfit was not a household name , but a country that could be ruled out . of all the philosophers that i knew since i began studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest to a genius .
but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . on paper , a hospital appears well staffed and properly equipped , but on my rounds there , i have found halls and barren . equally harmful are a government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures , as well as the stigma attached to an illness that is often sexually transmitted . even a fundamental test like a cat ’s may require transportation to another regional hospital . with few cases of therapeutic and diagnostic possibilities , there have been plenty of scope .
such simulations have also suggested that continued dependence on exports of labor outcomes in fewer growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exporting goods . but levels of average incomes in both the west bank and gaza will remain far lower under the latter ’s strategy than in a situation in which the israeli labor market is gradually reopened for the palestinian labor force . comparing the outcomes of these two simulations indicates that large palestinian export flows to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . what trade policies might boost exports of goods , rather than labor ? this confirms the enormous welfare cost to palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor markets .
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , following 30 years in power , many had hoped that the economic decline that he was overseeing would quickly reverse . but , a year and a half later , the us economy is showing no sign of recovery , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ?
china believes that it has found its own model to evolve and modernize , with its rulers regarding the games in much the same way that the nazis and leonid brezhnev did , as a vehicle for “ selling ” their model to a global audience . the name of speer itself probably did not matter for officials who elect it . obviously , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in choosing an architect whose name carried such dark historical connotations . but , in that case , when the son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serves a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler does not willingly reflect those sins ? totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in the 1980 ’s – desire to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world ’s supremacy .
these are the examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has labeled constitutional patriotism ( others hailed as civic patriotism ) . macron may proudly cite a french patriot , because france gave the world liberté , égalité , and fraternité . in the recent dutch elections , liberals might argue for upholding immigration rights , because respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can be proud . such are the examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has dubbed constitutional patriotism ( others hailed it as civic patriotism ) . the way to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for lofty and universal values .
if the icc is to fulfill the role it has been created , it can neither bow into such pressure nor allow its deficient performance to continue . to succeed , the icc will need to overcome strong opposition , not only from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , most notably us president donald trump . in april , when the icc set out whether to proceed with its inquiry into war crimes in afghanistan , including any potentially perpetrated by american forces , the trump administration rescinded its visa of its court chief prosecutor general . carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its ability to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . eu leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , the gaidc fatou bensouda – must take recent criticism as motivation , demonstrating that they are up to the task .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates over two years . the reasons are manifold : since the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growing advanced countries maintain very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-growing emerging-market economies are unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during a wrenching recession . this asymmetry has spurred huge capital flows from the former to the latter . the problem is compounded by the fact that one of the countries undertaking expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s ’s largest financial sector , and issues of paramount global currencies . emerging economies worry that this inflow of capital will drive their currencies ’ exchange-rate movements , in addition to fueling current-account deficits and asset bubbles that past experiences have taught them to be a sure recipe for future crises .
greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed to using genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of the “ beta ” ( carotene ) , which is converted in the human body to address vitamin a. greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed to using genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of the “ beta carotene ” ( gmos ) , which is converted in the human body to address vitamin a deficiency . in some countries , insufficient vitamin a is also a major factor driving maternal mortality rates during both pregnancy and childbirth . moore ’s mortality figures appear to be on the high ground , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . in fact , in the world health organization ’s report , this causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 preschool children every year , roughly half of whom die in just 12 months . likewise , in some countries , inadequate vitamin a deficiency also leads to high maternal mortality rates during pregnancy and childbirth .
in 1829 , john stuart mill made a key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called the “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some special set of assets in financial markets was mirrored by the excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which in turn generated excess employment in labor markets . the implication of this was clear . in 1829 , john stuart mill made a key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called the “ general gluts . ” by relieving excess demand for financial assets , you also cured the excess supply of goods and services ( the aggregate demand shortfall ) and excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) .
it is a gap seen in areas as diverse as health care , education , and the fight against climate change . of course , not even billionaires can resolve the world ’s problems on their own . that is why thomas zuckerberg ’s initiative was designed for maximum flexibility , allowing funds to be channeled into non-profits , directed to private investment , or used to help leverage policy debates . similarly , bec committed to propping up work for others by adopting “ flexible access to early stages ” approaches , providing seeds , angel , and series of investment , with the expectation that once such investment was de-risking , traditional commercial capital would be investing in later stages . no single actor – it is a government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of investors – can address today ’s great problems on its own .
but a more cynical view pervades populist logic , namely that in its excessive adherence to globalism , the us has sown the seeds of its own political and economic devastation . the goal now is not only to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to establish a system that broadens american dominance . america ’s populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by signs that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks he can do something about it . a liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer , and more just place where a person ’s economic fate does not depend entirely on where they are born .
ultimately , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s stalinist government will rebuff any effort that encroaching on the isolation it needs to stay in power . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the assumption that this might enhance communication , thus diminishing the nuclear threat . but , in such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to such outsize demands , owing to america ’s withdrawal of us forces from the region and economic and energy assistance to prop up the regime . one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and american forces and re-establishing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but , in such a scenario , north korea could hold its relations hostage to such outsize demands , owing to america ’s withdrawal from the region and economic and energy assistance to prop up the regime .
in greece , the main political fault line has been the austerity policies imposed by the european institutions and the international monetary fund . thus , the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and most disastrously – took on a left-wing pattern . in both countries , the far right has lacked breeding ground elsewhere . in spain , the majority of immigrants until recently came from culturally similar latin american countries . the story is similar in the key two exceptions to the right-wing resurgence in europe , greece , and spain .
in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for the end of pariah status . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for the end of pariah status . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . british and american negotiators were secretly meeting with libyan counterparts to resolve the case for the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . this was coupled with critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change .
why , then , is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standard of living ? botswana ’s amazing annual per capita income growth of around 13 % over the past decade was accompanied by a drop from almost six children per woman to under four . botswana ’s amazing annual per capita income growth of around 13 % over the past decade was accompanied by a drop from almost six children per woman to under four . a growing population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also of human capital . why , then , is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standard of living ?
that may sound a bit like the old system . but it does entail an understanding that even democracy has a number of rules , ideally , that a majority chosen by a majority . like it or not , they can not do so as a brigade of flanked children ; they need to elect leaders who can talk to them and bargain for them . that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . the modernizers needed to form a coherent force – and , most likely , a political party – rather than relying simply on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of a mob to govern .
in fact , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers worldwide , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing accounts for a similar share of male job gains ) . given the sectional and occupational distribution of such opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to seize them . rising incomes ; rising demand for health care , childcare , and the elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will generate new job opportunities . this miniscule benefit for women reflects the robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where women are well represented . assuming that current gender occupational and sectorship patterns hold , women might still have access to 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to 19 % for men .
russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store – thrilled to be surrounded by such cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were apparently flattered by putin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s adoration ( and its proximity to power ) . it was new year ’s eve of 2003 , during a concert at the newly-opened house of music in moscow . i myself once witnessed putin courting culture . directly across the aisle from me , there was putin , sitting between a one-time dissident cellist and conductor mstislavich , and his equally famous wife , the opera diva galina vishnevskaya .
in order to revive growth in a troubled global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government laid out the monetary and fiscal policies that began in november 1997 . by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to decline , producer prices had already been declining for eight months , and remained negative for a full of 51 months , with cpi growth starting to recover after 39 months . yet gdp growth soon began to worsen rapidly . an obvious lesson is that the government should shift to loosening earlier , more forcefully . but it was too little too late for the past .
while blanchard focuses on the rate on low-risk us government bonds , piketty worries about his return on risky capital investment . so , too , have the us now shifted from piketty ’s r > g world to blanchard ’s r < g of the world ? if so , can their opinions be reconciled ? the answer , then , is no and even yes , is likely to be reconciled . the views held by piketty and blanchard can indeed be reconciled , for they talk of various interest rates .
on the contrary , compared to their likely future losses , european banks have raised relatively little capital inflows recently , and much of this has been creative accounting rather than genuinely loss-absorbing shareholder equity . but , in that case , why all the fuss is so far ? perhaps the risk that a greek debt restructuring would produce a financial meltdown has always been minimal , with quiescent markets expected . but that is not because the banks that are prepared to do so by increasing their capital inflows . banks have failed , and there is no sign of tumbling dominicans .
in the scandinavian countries , as opposed to , say , germany and the us , a government , rather than individual firms , has been responsible for most social benefits . furthermore , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that short periods of unemployment do not force workers to sell their homes or even their cars . and , rather than solving all kinds of economic growth , laid-off workers may be able to concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs . that way , economically irrational lock-in effects , whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs , are shunned . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to pay out their mortgages and interest , but also indirectly banks , because their lending to households is repaid even during times of recession .
meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the great recession . while financial globalization has failed to boost growth , it has been exacerbated by volatility and instability . but , having suffered currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies are still feeling compelled to accumulate enormous reserves to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of its former productive capacity has gone away . public investment and fundamental social protection can help turn this around by creating millions of jobs .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this ostensibly moral and cultural decline concerns the family : to attack the family ’s institution , to regard it with disdain or to question its important role , ” ” ” ” by the pope and the grand imam state , is “ one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” the paper asserts that the family is the “ fundamental nucleus of society and mankind ” and “ is essential in bringing children to the world , raise them , educate them , and provide them with solid moral formation and domestic security . ” after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . yet it is widely recognized that young people are often left behind . addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under the age of 25 – africa is the world ’s youngest region . they typically face insufficient economic opportunities , and possibly socially or politically excluded .
in the nineteenth century , no country took more land out of china than russia did , and the current demographic situation across much of the middle east – where russians number six million , and a population along the border ranks up to 120 million – adds to anxiety in moscow . while trade has soared , investment lags , and russia ranks only tenth among china ’s export markets . russia ’s ’s economic decline has heightened anxiety over china ’s rise . as the economist recently reported , russia is concerned about becoming the alliance ’s ’s ’s junior partner , more dependent on china than china ’s is on russia . according to frey yujun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship for the us is one with america . ”
martin wolf then snarls that unless it is a lamb , it was his father ; after it , he moved immediately into action . wolf then snarls that , if not a lamb , was his father ; after it , he moved immediately into action . florence – in phaedrus ’s ’s well-known fable and lamb , wolf easy to eat lamb without a word , but prefers to set his own “ reasons . ” he then argues that , last year , the lamb labeled him the “ bad names ” ( but the lamb was just six months old ) . wolf ’s “ justifications ” for his malevolent action was a luxury that he enabled himself .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . i am talking not so much about the 2016 american presidential election , which placed donald trump in power , but rather the 2018 elections in brazil , won by the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 . i am talking not about america ’s 2016 presidential election , which placed donald trump in power , but rather the 2018 elections in brazil , won by the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
this latest surge of american populism is financed by some of the extraordinarily affluent men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who cutting taxes to the super-rich , and abolishing government subsidies to the poor , such as social security and president barack obama ’s administration . this agenda might seem selfish , if understandable , from the standpoint of the oil billionaire . but then there was something odd about the whole event , just as there is something odd about the tea party movement itself . she then moved quickly to denounce the long celebratory talk about the heroism of america ’s soldiers “ to fight for freedom ” abroad . this agenda might seem selfish , if understandable , of the oil billionaire .
the beginnings of his papacy finds populist governments in vulnerable situations , hit hard by chávez ’s recent deaths . moreover , they govern countries in which catholics have been an overwhelming majority . although the level of their religious commitment varies , they share a strong emotional attachment to a level of faith that ensures that francis has significant political leverage . moreover , they govern countries where catholics are an overwhelming majority . latin america will undoubtedly be one of franco ’s priorities .
the answers to the second major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will recover its economic momentum , too – appears to be “ “ no ” ; at least in the short run , most experts agree that china ’s export – and the investment-led growth model have all but depleted its potential . this should be unacceptable , for example , for the us congress to block the release of the 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared by a committee of national-security officials . but obama can not do so on his own , and so far neither the american public nor america ’s congress seems committed to re-connecting with its moral compass . we must lead the world by deed and by example . not even the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from the potential of american surveillance have stirred americans to request a new approach .
this paved the way for the next-generation pharmacies . to fill a prescription for a drug with the well-known pharmacogenomic profile of drug , a customer can get fast genotyping to establish a suitable dose , drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects . nevertheless , substantive and remarkable progress has been made all over the past couple of years . genotyping can now be accomplished in 20 minutes , and over time will get even faster . moreover , someday , we will know – through sequencing the entire genome – about rarer ’s genomic flaws that corrode treatment or spillover effects .
from the banks ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson was the need for a powerful national government to incur the potential cost of rescue . the us is big enough to deal with behemoths such as bank of america or citigroup . the financial crisis produced a new answer to where the greatest competitive advantages lie . the american is big enough to deal with behemoths such as bank of america or citigroup . it is no longer best placed under the most favorable regulatory regime , but rather that the state has its deepest pockets .
linneaus invented a modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , though naming did not arrive under way until the peace process following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 . the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 is increasing as taxonomists describe new species from skeletal remains to be found in caves , for example , where bones survive . such searches are far from complete . linneaus has yet to do with comparable analyses regarding the fate of the caribbean and the indian ocean islands following the first human contact , but it is likely that large numbers of extinctions have occurred all too . early european exploration probably continued this rapid pace of extinction .
the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . syria , iraq , yemen , and libya are all dealing with a mix of civil and proxy wars . the plight of millions of refugees constitutes not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic boon for countries in both the region and europe . and europe already is confronting many significant challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth . iran ’s nuclear pact at best manages one aspect of iranian power and only for a limited duration .
such movements have created space for forward-thinking policymakers to take action . meanwhile , the climate crisis continues to grow , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go . droughts have hit back in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa are suffering from major water shortages . earlier this year , the catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly wildfires have claimed lives and devastated billions of dollars worth of wealth in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia .
the stakes for both africa and the us are high . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a robust partnership with the us will be vitally important to africa ’s continued growth and development . we owe this to our progeny – and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs are already leading the charge – to get it right . this is the start of an important dialogue with the us . the decisions we make now will have implications for generations to come .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with the concepts and reality of strategic strength . in economic terms , india ’s trust has been heavily boosted by how the western world now looks at it with a mix of respect and greed : “ what sort of deals may i strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon be the world ’s largest ? ” such was clearly the case in france under louis xiv , the sunni king in the seventeenth-century english revolution , and so is the case today in china , whose leadership has been comfortable with the balance-of-power games of classical europe . india is obviously in a different category . yet , to understand india ’s ’s political and diplomatic relations with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in the 1920 ’s .
an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country where real mobility is low – including georgia ’s southeastern states , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina . views about social mobility are neither uniform across the political spectrum nor across geographic regions . such people favor government interventions , because they believe that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness , potentially even generate more inequality . the counterpart holds true for those whom i call economically “ liberal . ” in both america and europe , for example , those calling themselves the “ conservative ” conservative ” on economic policy believe that there are equality of opportunity for all children , and that free-market economics in their countries is fair .
once upon a time , there were many relatively little department-store chains and other retailers with headquarters spread across america and outlets in multiple towns . grocer , shoppers , coffee shops , and barber goes out of business ; everybody leaves , turn the eu into a ghost town . but retail consolidation , driven partly by walmart and amazonia , has dealt a deathblow to many of these companies . these headquarters have brought income to their town by supplying back-office services to their shops . disruptions can be due not only to industrial shutter .
the republican party ’s proposed tax cuts would produce a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , and can not plug that hole with the revenue savings of their health-care reform plan , or the $ 1.2 trillion that could conceivably be expected from the bat . the republicans must now choose between passing on their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to public debt ) and pursuing much more modest reform . the first scenario is unlikely , for three reasons , for the first time . the bat does not have enough support even among republicans and would violate world trade organization rules . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to reckless increases in us public debt .
part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add up . when a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . such resilience will be tested over a longer run , though , owing to the fiscal and external imbalances stemming from data revisionism . but that has not occurred in this case . its net export position and the current-account balance are improving .
new analysis shows that only 17 countries , including algeria and samoa , are in fact meeting their commitments , in most cases because they have promised very little . the 2015 paris climate agreement provides a powerful example . countries that manage to opt out of massaging the data . first , when it comes to addressing climate change , matters are what matters . countries have made grandiose commitments to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels ; all their promises together add up to less than 1 % of what was needed .
as a result , the vast regions of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become unlivable . earlier conferences of the unfccc ’s signatories sought to achieve legally binding emissions-reduction agreements , at least for the industrialized countries that had produced the majority of greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered – partly owing to us intransigence under us president george w. bush ’s administration – and was abandoned when the copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the us had never signed ) . instead , the copenhagen accord merely appealed to countries for voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by specific amounts . now , thawing siberian permafrost will free up vast quantities of methane .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he has called for establishing a mechanism for european preemptive diplomacy and compulsory consultation when any state is at risk . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine might have been averted . though i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it is extremely difficult not to be pessimistic about the eu as 2014 . obviously , political leaders are to blame for filing away these and other “ european ideas ” in their archives . but fault lines must also be shared with europe ’s entire political class , civil-society institutions , and media .
and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s ’s ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland is producing electric buses ; and austria is at the forefront when it comes to green buildings . when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , which was tasked with leading energy talks at the un summit , has integrated a wide range of wind power into its electricity grid . but , as european leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator . sweden , which will run an industrial workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free plants .
it has been in nobody ’s interest to disturb this live-and let-live pragmatism for very long . prejudice has tended to decline as participation spikes . one treaty result is the paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity ” with the difference . because migrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are used to different types of people and so differentiate those differences that might damage a country from those that do not . tolerance for other people ’s religion is the price paid for tolerance .
that is why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program administrator mark malloch brown have asked us president donald trump to lead a new commission on the private sector and development that we have agreed . entrepreneurial energies are already there : visit the country ’s tiniest town in the world ’s poorest country on the market day , and you can see the private sector in action . based on our own experiences -- in mexico that has opened up to foreign investment and trade , and in canada -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and fixed . if small businesses were able to expand beyond village campuses , they could drive their countries ’ growth better than any assistance agency . this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from achieving their full potential .
and yet , even as it does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to conducting frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . there is no guarantee that he will not repeat this gambit . so far , he has proven highly effective at keeping bromance alive and the forthcoming track summit . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump demonstrate that he has a good fix for the us president ’s psyche . regardless of when a second summit does occur , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime .
all of this has produced emigration an increasingly appealing option , particularly for young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries on transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state fails to provide a fundamental safety net : in july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating mediterranean region , denis ten , was assassinated in broad daylight at the centre of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to prevent its car mirrors that it had been stolen . amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . it has also reversed its heat on simmering social strife that has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been explicitly intended to preempt popular protests ) .
under the current system of incentives , the authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity will in fact destroy the jobs occupied by the saudis . but whenever the kingdom has attempted to curtail public-sector hiring , unemployment has risen . the challenge of job creation for the saudis may seem to be a riches problem . some would argue that all the kingdom needs is a substitute for saudi workers in existing positions . but simple substitution will not do .
the whole point of money is that it enables parties to transact without having to barter . in the us , the reason that we do not use euros or yen besides dollars is obvious : doing so would be senseless and would make the economy far less efficient . but so , too , is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency could replace fiat money . the notion that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together not only contradicts the very notion of money ; it is entirely idiotic . but , for the sake of money to hold value , and to generate economies of scale , only so many currencies could operate simultaneously .
minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that , in an interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their own positions become self-defeating when undermining global stability and dynamism are undermined . this means ensuring that the disruptions stemming from america ’s short-termism are not present a long-term systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . the trade war has thrown this lesson into sharp forbearance . minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that , in an interconnected world , attempting to strengthen their own positions will become self-defeating when it comes to undermining global stability and dynamism . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut and dry than the cold war was .
to accelerate the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; include a common and consistent system for monitoring , reporting , and verification ; and offering strong economic incentives on a global scale . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could allow for rapid reductions in greenhouse gases . our price-and-rebate mechanism is being inspired by the “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed or given a bonus depending on a vehicle ’s co2 emissions . they also emphasize knock-on benefits , which take quick action to address climate change , including cuts in local pollution , greater energy and food security , and more rapid innovation . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could allow rapid reductions in greenhouse gases .
thus , expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations by the central bank is the first item on the checklist of what to do during times of financial crisis . when there is no excess demand for cash , there wo n’t be any excess supply of the bonds and stocks that underlie and financing the economy ’s ’s productive capital stock . three months ago , i argued that all but the diminutive fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant during downturns , and i was right . i was also right to say that all but the diminutive fringe of economists approve of central-bank guarantees of the system ’s stability , in order to counter the risk of collapse of payment systems from becoming the first-line consideration boosting demand for cash to unnatural degrees . by purchasing government bonds for cash , a central bank can meet demand and push down prices .
for starters , it is underpinned by the claim that at the height of the berlin wall and the soviet union ’s disintegration , the west has promised not to expand nato . the eastward enlargement of nato and the european union , both of them , contend , amounted to an unnecessary provocation . indeed , none other than george kennan , america ’s originator of america ’s ’s ’s ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato ’s enlargement in the 1990s , on precisely such grounds . even mikhail gorbachev , at the 25th anniversary of the wall ’s demise , has accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead benefiting russia from its weakening ” in order to assert itself as part of russia ’s weakening , in the 1990s , to assert russia ’s monopoly of global leadership and global domination , ” including through nato enlargement . there are obvious limits to this theory , but it is a matter of principle .
against this backdrop , “ some ” is the imf ’s code for the united states . america ’s share of global equity valuations is by far the highest it has ever been – a remarkable statistic , given america ’s declining share of global economic activity . even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , undoubtedly still conscious of the panglossian view that it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy remains “ vulnerable to an abrupt tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations seem stretched in some markets . ” how , then , should we view all of these warnings ? the international monetary fund has gotten into action as well .
i have also developed what i have called the adjusted gsdeer that corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america and europe . given that the dollar has been trading at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this suggests that the dollar is actually about 6 % weaker than it should be . accordingly , adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as of june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1,590 . which interest rates are best for making comparisons is a matter of debate , as is the effects of quantitative easing ; but i do not see any good reason not to use the ten-year-round government-bond differential adjusted for inflation expectations . given that the dollar has been trading at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this suggests that the dollar is actually about 6 % weaker than it should be .
the kazakh government , scrambling to support its over-the-counter overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave up on its choice to pull the plug . the kazakh government , scrambling to support its over-the-counter overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , surrendered to them , and chose to pull the plug . despite a messy default , this fresh start generated a spectacular turnaround . but , – and here the point – with its debts written out , the banking system is now recapitalized and its potential to support economic growth . the kazakh government , scrambling to support its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , surrendered to the plug .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time , we reach just 8 % of the 760,000 age children . this year needs to be an education ’s moment – a window of opportunity opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the un ’s sustainable development goals , including declining maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our minds to issues related to gender equality . but , most important , this is an education ’s moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holds a playbook for insurgent ’s guns in pakistan , when teenage mothers exiled in south sudan make education for their children their top priority , and when lights viewed from space might include child clusters huddled through candlelight efforts to read and study , we know that education ’s moment came . just $ 230 per year per person is available for basic needs like water , food , and shelter , and fewer than $ 10 per child goes toward education .
it is time for the us to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , alter north korea ’s behavior , or halt a syrian civil war on its own . and us secretary of state james baker has used it to preside over the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . if the us can not provide this kind of force today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution . over the past two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions of the middle east . us president jimmy carter used it to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establishing diplomatic relations between egypt and israel .
by appeasing terrorists in this manner , the world ’s most powerful states give a green light to terrorists not only in the balkans but around the world . if the world can not eradicate terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope does it have to defeat terrorism elsewhere ? so , before the anti-terror campaign seeks other terrorist bases to destroy , it should eliminate terror in an area in which the un itself is ruling . kosovo is a territory far smaller than afghanistan . if the world fails to eradicate terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope is it of defeating terrorism elsewhere ?
soon enough , several early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiftlessness , ” and “ criminality ” could all be attributed to individual genes as well . if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behavior becomes so complicated , could it really be any less so with humans ? the view that an individual gene might account for a total biological trait is as old as genetics itself . if the relationship between the fruit fly fly genes and behavior becomes so complicated , could the relationship be any less so with the humanities ? soon , several early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiftlessness , ” and “ criminality ” could all but be attributed to individual genes .
the problem is that regardless of how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs have been formulated , they remain bogus . and , after all , one can n’t have the last , utopian society , without possessing the ultimate , scientific theory of human behavior alongside some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over a lifetime . military strategists have known for centuries that there is , and could be , no definitive science of warfare . like boxing and poker sites , this is a soft , restrained , private form of warfare . among other things , capitalism is a struggle among individual people over control of scarce resources .
paris – earlier this week , following days of tense debates , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors comprising a package of immediate reforms and a four-month extension of its funding assistance program . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , a compromise does not preclude the need for further hard-power negotiations over the new financial-assistance program that are expected to be introduced by late june . in that case , the issue comes at the expense of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone , a prospect that has been widely discussed in the eu-wide media , with considerable speculation over the stance taken by the various players , particularly the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , abandoning the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is very little support in poland . in any negotiation , a key variable affecting the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each .
consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast their ballots in september for the lower house of parliament . but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture , either . western media have been examining elections as a failure . elections in länder to democracy are never quite pretty much , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as any elections in iraq are likely to occur . cnn has reported this “ neither equitable nor free . ”
like india before the stultifying license raj in the 1990 's , successive governments grasped the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) challenged the 2004 elections on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in the slogan , “ india shining " . satisfying the demand for such goods is itself an engine of growth . but , too , a reliable path creates tremendous additional activity as trade rises between affiliated areas and myriad businesses , restaurants , and hotels rts along the way . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , as well as a wide range of world-class corporations that can be enlisted in attempting to provide these public goods . as a result , india has been providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , harbors , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care .
with an unassailable parliamentary majority , italy could implement coherent supply-side reforms even at the risk of some early unpopularity . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give proper incentives to restructuring , whereas privatization came to a halt . its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , became poorer , and its economic structure was unfit for new challenges , owing both to firm size and specialization in traditional industries , along with low levels of education and r & d. a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid interventions on pensions and additional increases in labor-market flexibility . yet the berlusconi government did next to nothing to address these shortcomings , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . several reforms were belatedly enacted : timid official interventions on pensions and further increases labor-market flexibility .
if not quite representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of high-tech industries may nonetheless have to be nurtured if africa is to flourish . despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is afoot in black africa : a stealthy rise of a high-technology sector . africans speak english , type , at least 50 words a minute on a computer , take data from paper claim forms supplied by american health insurers through electronic forms , put it into new digital forms , and ships that go back to the us . consider what is happening on multiple floors of a single high office construction in accra , ghana ’s capital . some 1,500 africans process american health-insurance claims – working around the clock , in three shifts .
the goal of such an effort has always been to avoid a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and a hegemonic butting process . the westphalian system was replaced by the cold war ’s bipolar order , wherein sovereignty rested with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . yet the westphalian system was ravaged by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both of which had de facto european wars for world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans – even the victorious european allies – effectively lost national sovereignty . the eu was conceived as an attempt to reclaim european sovereignty peacefully , by pooling the national interests of european states .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank stress tests . if it is more forthright about the risks , there is a chance that some periphery countries might be having to sort out the holes , and that will require help from the north . in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank stress tests . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright .
they could also fund competitions among socially conscious tech entrepreneurs to spur further innovations in this area . they should expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled technologies for mental-health-care delivery . to be sure , there is a cost to such initiatives for such initiatives . venture capital companies now spend an estimated $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development . researchers should use fully representative test groups , while taking care to comply with stringent privacy and accountability protocols .
consider , for example , the harvard university ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth laboratory , which i established in 2006 after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , the us has been working on more than three dozen countries and regions . yet the teaching-hospital model could be effective in public policy as well . both focus on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” ” ” ” ” or on governments in the us . in some respects , the laboratory looks a little like teaching and research hospital .
new england ’s fledgling textile mills was desperate for technology , and did its best to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british artisans . the us had patent laws , but it shielded only the us citizens of the world . and the us had as much respect for british industrialists of trade classified as china today for american intellectual property rights . any reasonable international trading scheme had to start from recognition that it is neither feasible nor desirable to curtail policy space countries had to design their own economic and social models . as one us trade historian hft put it , americans “ were pirates , too . ”
but if the world shifts in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power will begin to take shape , marking the beginnings of a new international system . the other great change – ie , the end of the global ideological divide – raises difficult and perhaps even more complicated issues . yes , one can debate on a third way or two and a half way or a half way , but these are essentially marginal debates . there exists today a fundamental , even on the occasion of a ritualistic , consensus around the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for political organization with some form of free markets with varying degrees of social responsibility , based on private enterprise , as the foundation for economic activity . making all of these changes will be challenging .
it would offer returns closer to those yielded to equity investments , but with some of the risk offset by its long-run nature . public contributions , likely back-stopped by multilateral lenders , would provide projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles . developing a bhe would require a new private-sector investment platform structured to give bespoke returns for its various participants . finally , by regulating the nature of cash flows , the well regulated nature of cash flows would allow for better pre-defined return structures rather than traditional private or public capital to offer . risk would be further mitigated through the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions .
depending on how soon china opens up its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future . to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even held small volumes of its currency in their reserve portfolios . but such actions may well be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . capital inflows – which will undoubtedly intensify in the years ahead – are driven largely by investors ’ interest in diversification and soaring yield , rather than the country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , especially given that china ’s ’s financial markets are relatively under-developed and beset by significant risk . and the countries ’ desire to preserve good relations with china , owing to its rising economic power , may not be discounted .
there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , of course , ranging from intelligence sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba . but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro , or nicaragua ’s ’s ’s nicaragua ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s daniel ortega , so a real rupture here may be avoided . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while retreating to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-interventionist stance toward regional diplomacy . and america ’s drug-enforcement administration will not look kindly to any backtracking on previous mexican presidents ’ commitments to continue waging costly , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico . the peasants in guerrero are cultivating the amapola for the cartels rather than for its own subsistence .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s then-president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . the same year , similar protests have erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the establishment of a rule of law that would have allowed president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure . the au should demonstrate leadership in this area , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy , in line with his agenda of 2063 . the au , for its part , has defied military coups . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must take a stand against the “ constitutional coups ” carried out by presidents , because it sets itself more resolutely as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
germany , for example , has a large population of guest workers , but few settle with its families ; most leave its children in their own homeland . higher fertility rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect large numbers of immigrant families in individual countries . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance . but rising numbers of migrant workers will not necessarily raise fertility rates .
the actual culprits at the top of these companies rarely need to be feared . to be sure , there have been no consequences whatsoever for cheney . impunity is widespread – indeed , a majority of corporate crimes go un-noted . the news has hardly made a ripple effect in america ’s media coverage . the few that are noticed typically put to rest on a wrist slap , with the company – meaning its shareholders picking up a modest fine .
for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate forebears – had lived in small groups in which violence might be inflicted only on up-front and personal ends by strikes , pressuring , strangling , or use a stick or stone as a club . this was not the case with people seeking to make their judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations , like throwing a switch . why , then , should our judgments and our emotions differ in this manner ? for much of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestry – lived in small groups in which violence could be inflicted only on up-front and personal ends by strikes , pressuring , strangling , or using a stick or stone as a club . why , then , should our judgments , and our emotions diverge in this manner ?
investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude . in september of that year , sterling was devalued again , as it had been 18 years earlier , to more than 30 % . in september of that year , sterling was devalued again , as it had been 18 years earlier , to a record 30 % . political uncertainty is high and no prospect for a general election to resolve it anytime soon . in 1949 , britain found itself in the same position , with its trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence .
in fact , relations with israel improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before -- a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah . once in power , the erbakan tempered its tone and action . turkey went on to allow the u.s.-led " operation provide comfort " against iraq in order to use the turkish base . power did indeed lead the refah to compromise rather than extremes . power in fact led refah to compromise rather than extremes .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s ’s ’s ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , a play whose title character is the proprietor of a number of brothels . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theater “ club , ” ” ” ” ostensibly restricted to members . the play is not salacious , and it contains no coarse language , but it was nonetheless eight years before it could be staged . its performance in new york city in 1905 was raided by the police . the play justifies its profitable exploitation of the prostitution business of the feminist standpoint .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of unemployment crises portend profound economic , political , and social ramifications . though the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs in a decade through its youth jobs in africa initiative , it is not immediately clear where these opportunities will come from . each year , some 13 million young people worldwide look to work in africa , but only around three million are looking for jobs in africa . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , while africa ’s schools and universities are failing to produce enough tech graduates to make up for tomorrow ’s success . but a crisis may turn out to be averted , and one solution might be just as simple as turning on the lights .
but no palestinian , arab , or accountable international leader would ever embrace such a design , as was made abundantly clear in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let us be clear : a two-state solution does not imply accommodating the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it implies an end to this colonial enterprise . refusing to mention the two-state solution , trump ’s ’s team ’s statements go in a very different direction , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . now , plans are afoot to promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw , where palestinians are not about to participate . now , plans are afoot to promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw , where palestinians are out of step .
nor does israel seem to figure out much in its own jewish identity relative to the memory of the holocaust than anything else . in any case , this is not as if avoiding any talk about israel is a departure for sanders . sanders is no different from many other american jews in this respect . he certainly has never embraced israel as a political cause , as so many other american jewish politicians have . despite having spoken on matters where it is needed , he has generally not become outspoken on questions about the country .
for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the american people ’s chief business is business . king salman has embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and has expressed support for israeli-palestinian peace . the deal seems to have become the foundation of a brilliant new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . nothing has been said of human rights , far fewer women ’s rights , and the word “ democracy ” has never passed trump ’s lips . instead , trump has completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced armaments to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy .
since gold was $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold has done nothing to offset the decline in the value of the dollar . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflationary risks and exchange-rate risks . a japanese investor holding dollar equities or real estate might instead compensate for exchange-rate losses by buying yen futures . the same goes for a euro--based investor who would not gain by holding gold but could offset the dollar ’s decline by buying euro futures . tips , or their equivalent of other governments , provides secure inflationary hedges , and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risks .
south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many other countries are now buying dollars to defend their own currencies against revaluation and thereby defend their exports . munich – because china has pegged its under-appreciated currency , the renminbi , to the us dollar , every weakening of the dollar in america ’s financial crisis – has also meant weakening the renminbi vis-à-vis other global currencies . but is china really serious about blaming the eruption of a global currency war ? the united states is currently engaged in drastic moves against china and is making provisions for a trade war . likewise , europe has become nervous following the european exchange rate rose to over $ 1.40 , far beyond purchasing power parity ( ppp ) of $ 1.17 .
it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods to monitor income and wealth . but , while such sources may offer valuable insights , they fail to meet the norms of methodological rigor and the conceptual clarity upon which informed public conversation should be based . to this end , a particularly important milestone will come with a revision , owing over the next three years to the united nations ’ domestic accounts system . government statistical agencies should publish income and wealth levels by the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , respectively , along with effective taxes paid by such groups . for these reasons , researchers , media organizations , and civil-society organizations need to gain greater participation .
eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the government slightly more than $ 100 billion annually , roughly 3 % of federal spending . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are now learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . it is becoming increasingly clear that the name will change ( “ trumpcare , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” can be expected to cover fewer people ; but much of its substance remains the same . health-care reform , as hillary clinton might tell them , is fearsomely complicated . but those subsidies are largely paid for their own dedicated taxes .
during cardoso ’s tenure , he had privatized telecoms , domestic mining companies , and a portion of the electric sector . inflation had fallen , but unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all rose sharply . during cardoso ’s tenure , he had privatized telecoms , national mining companies , and parts of the electric sector . from the beginning of his campaign , lula showed strength , particularly after the right ’s favored candidate , roseana sarney , crashed and burned when the federal police and the prosecutors had discovered cash-load power stations in her husband ’s office . inflation fell , but unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all rose sharply .
when a person chooses to purchase a “ salvator mundi ” rather than restore sight to nine million people , what does that say about their values ? ( for all of these interventions , the numbers are likely to be somewhat smaller , because a charity impact calculator is not designed for such large sums , and thus fails to account for the fact that the costs will rise once the needs of those who are simplest in line were met . ) for $ 450 million , one could also purchase an estimated 180 million bed nets , enough to save the lives of 271 million from malaria . give direct monetary transfers an increase in recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets . in case , you think that people receiving this windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation demonstrated that they did not .
mail managers will also handle incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests , as specified by the recipient , will gather credit card information from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as fewer mail are sent , a higher share will be wanted and responded . to begin with , you can simply set your price at , say , $ 1 , alongside a roster of people who can reach you for free . a recipient is unlikely to see the complexities ; most of that will be handled along the back burner . to begin , you can simply set your price on , say , $ 1 , alongside a roster of people who can reach you for free .
it was a mistake to view bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , as trump ’s white house rasputin has done . in business and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s own brand of political opportunism ( trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self tale ) . bannon reinforced the nationalist inclination that led trump to overrule his daughter , ivanka and his economic advisers , by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . ( bannon was believed to be behind a recent push to force out the mcmaster , primarily by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel ” . ) on trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s own political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self tariffs ) .
meanwhile , demand in much of europe is weak , ruled out by the economic growth needed to pay off debts and offer hope to the 25 million unemployed . parochial suspicion has been the primary obstacle to a grand solution . no country ’s taxpayer has wanted to feel to pay for others ’ excesses : the single currency has not imposed shared responsibility . so far , no country ’s creditor countries , led by germany , have sought to do the minimum needed to keep greece alive , while the debtors have grumbled impotently regarding germany ’s ’s ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . they mistrust each other too much to cooperate .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average and by about 35 % vis-à-vis germany in order to restore external-debt sustainability . the ecb and the international community – particularly the international monetary fund – have been attempting to cope with the crisis by replacing a dearth of private capital with public credit . borrowing terms deteriorated abruptly , and what has been left to the country ’s thoroughly overpriced rump form of economies that have become excessively dependent on foreign financing . the french economy , in turn , suffers because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . the cheap credit ushered in by the european fed ’s inflationary economic bubble , which burst when the financial crisis hit .
if i wanted to know whether napoleon met with kant , i pick up the volumes of k and n , discovering that napoleon had been born in 1769 and died in 1821 ; and that kant ’s birth in 1724 and died in 1804 . of course , encyclopedias is never supposed to be read cover to cover . the same thing happens , even if one reads philosophy , say , husserl . the author opens himself to the fist page and follows a set of questions for you to see how to reach its conclusions . the encyclopedias , of course , are never supposed to be read cover .
from one perspective , this is only another case of emotion defeating the economic rationale . yet our emotions are those algorithms , bequeathed by evolution , by which we make most decisions , including politics ; economic cost-benefit analysis that does not link to our emotional compass does not move the needle . at the heart of the issue is our sense of “ evolution . ” letting them in may produce a better team , but it would no longer be our team . what does this mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iraq , switzerland , turkey , switzerland , or any other political entity ?
the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not the islam that looks at loggerheads with democracy . a careful study of the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states by contrast shows that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . if a government sprang from a reasonably fair election , and an elected government manages to fill its most important political offices , the country is perceived as “ electorally competitive . ” that conclusion follows from comparisons of muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” islam and democracy are frequently presumed to be bitter antagonists .
understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the right paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects technology ’s diffusion . thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering ” techniques . other scientists noted that the organism was indeed only “ semi-synthetic , ” ” ” ” ” ” owing to its synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of its cell ’s dry weight ) to its normal or non-synthetic , bacterium . ( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . ) on the contrary , swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger has rightly noted that venter ’s achievement “ is a technological advance , not a conceptual kind . ”
paris – with weak demand in the advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including among the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of income convergence has come to an end . that process began in the late 1980 ’s and continued unabated , with the exception of the years surrounding the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . as i argued before , the convergence of emerging-market countries ’ real average incomes in the aggregate , with advanced countries ’ incomes likely to continue in 2020 . the pace of convergence accelerated further during this period , and just after the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : the aggregate differential in per capita income growth averaged more than four percentage points during the 2008-2012 period , from slightly more than two percentage points earlier . nothing could be further from the truth .
labour has sought to avoid constitutional debate because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk ’s parliament . as for conservatives , the party has allowed its faith in the country ’s constituent assembly to foreclose any debate about how that union can be modernized . labour has sought to pre-empt a constitutional debate , because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk ’s parliament . it is unfair to cede power to the scots ’s parliament , while remaining on the job that controls 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionate say over what happens in england . that belief has given the two major political parties the right to play .
at the same time , fact-checking organizations should focus not only on tackling fake information , but also on identifying sources of trustworthy information and pointing their readers and followers to them . this is the approach taken by our organizations , and , as small and under-resourced as they are , the impact is already apparent . it also means working with tech companies to find ways to prevent the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international boundaries . this means reaching out to public figures to request on-line corrections , lodging grievances with norms , and offering training to media organizations . and we should work with schools and other educational platforms to help teach people to identify fake or misleading claims .
london – one of the most disordered features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons – and by those who would build more of them – has been consigned to the margin of politics . us president barack obama captured the global spotlight in a 2009 speech making a compelling case for a nuclear-weapon-free world . and he has delivered on a major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , hosted a summit aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion . it would take a bold gambler to bet on ratification of the american senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty , any time soon . but the nuclear issue continues to struggle for public resonance and political traction .
the report cited numerous state-specific failings , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams , ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems ” in california . the report concludes that some $ 3.6 trillion in investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed by 2020 to boost america ’s infrastructure quality by addressing the “ substantial hindu water system ” index [ and the ] pressing need for modernization . a developed economy , it seems , requires adequate , ongoing public-goods investment . a 2013 paper by the american society of civil engineers gave the american society a pathetic overall + grade to its infrastructure . but the american infrastructure state suggests that many decision-makers do not share this view .
global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products essentially resemble other global commodities markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the premise that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is little demand . whatever is not suppressed is effectively unregulated , with the exception of criminal organizations . the second myth presumes that the prohibition of prohibition reduces drug harm . governments may act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but they are a mistake to see prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . prohibition in reality represents the abdication of regulation ; it is a matter of principle .
as it stands , we have “ fished down ” our stocks , up to a few large , old individuals remain . this is for the best of the reasons – fish that are caught when they are too little will produce little yield . for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect fish resources by regulating the quantity of fish taken from the sea by allowing young fish to reproduce and by making sure that action is honored . ” moreover , the fish may not be able to reproduce , undermining fish stocks entirely . to see this , consider the north sea cod of the eu .
with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ achilles ’ heel . the truth about what people genuinely feel remains impossible to know . official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and usually go to 86 % – support him for everything from annexing crimea to his latest term as president . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration for the real thing .
funding from parent banks , which in the earlier stages of the crisis helped provide liquidity to eastern europe ’s banking systems , now appears more like a liability and possible source of contagion . yet this vulnerability has been mostly shaped , or at least accommodated , by western banks . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home ” rule , had been meant to discourage such excesses . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home ” rule , were meant to discourage such excesses . but it was probably in hungary that the first country to seek an imf package , that such practices were most widespread .
what is missing is a deeper scrutiny of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . in fact , there is evidence that an exclusively military response may be resource waste , or even do more harm than good . add to that this mismanagement of ethnic and religious pluralism , stir by a large and growing cohort of unemployed and digitally connected young people , and the continent offers ideal conditions for mayhem . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments have reacted to violent extremism mainly by throwing “ tough ” safety first . but this strategy has neither diminished extremist groups nor restricted to them .
industry fears that the law could be copied in much larger markets , such as india and china . moreover , wherever health-care costs pay for everyone , including america , with its public health-care programs for the poor , and elderly , everyone pays the cost of attempting to treat illnesses caused by cigarette traffic . whether to prohibit cigarettes to altogether is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create a new source of revenue for organized crime . the tobacco industry will now take its fight against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization . but it appears odd to hold that the state may , in principle , prohibit sales of a product , but may not allow it to be marketed only in packs carrying out graphic images of the damage it causes to human health .
according to a recent hurricane season , the dominican republic – which has invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks – has suffered fewer than ten fatalities . during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic – which has invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks – suffered fewer than ten deaths . the un framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how the disasters they feared were linked to climate change . climate-change policies are not the best way to reduce the effects of weather-related disasters . in neighboring haiti , which has been unmapped for 2,000 lives .
in particular , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to bring more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to target corruption . the g20 ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions target into formal g-20 support for “ strong and effective action to address climate change . ” ( all of this discontented australia ’s conservative host government , which struggled to avoid the issue , have even been raised ; the australian public , however , has been delighted , and has promptly knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for that and other embarrassments . ) the g20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge to the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . other formal outcomes of the g20 meeting were agreements – backed more policymaking detail than most commentators had expected – to spur global growth .
if one is tempted to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial setting as versailles is certain to prove effective . many of those who voted for macron may have been hoping for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . but reveling in a country ’s monarchical history may prove dangerous . can macron learn from his mistakes and regain the trust of french voters , who have felt humiliated by him ? but now they may be thinking more of louis xvi , a king who has been paying with his life for the faults of his predecessors .
for many , the world economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point when america ’s economy turned the corner . and they did , culminating in one of the most successful periods of global policy coordination in history , involving both the advanced and emerging economies . as they have intervened , american policymakers have consulted closely with their counterparts worldwide , urging them to take supportive steps . the change has been so notable that many us policymakers have fallen into projecting a quick rebound , particularly in view of america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only humbled by what has proved to be a protracted and complex recovery process . and this is what the us economy has had in terms of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on a part of america ’s federal reserve .
the us stock market has fallen by nearly 50 % since its peak in 2006 and remains down by almost a third . the us stock market has fallen by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down almost a third . this enormous loss of wealth has caused a huge and persistent drop in consumption demand that has led to a spike in unemployment . fear feeds on itself and predicts that stocks will lose value become self-fulfilling . america ’s 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of the real-estate bubble .
as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling for solutions . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , did not purchase las vegas review-journal in 2015 , or capture israeli media for campaign funds . the free and healthy news media are essential to a well-functioning democracy . if we are to protect the latter , we must defend the former at all costs .
this will change very rapidly , particularly given the potential for nato ’s troop spikes in afghanistan . so far , merkel must deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . the political camps of the old left and right are back for now . from now on , she will require a trait that she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making skill sets . the black sea victory , moreover , has defined the alternative : the red , dark red , and the greens .
this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investment in renewables ( which will , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . the fourth challenge is to change how we produce , transportation , and consumption of energy . instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encourage dependence on public transportation , making our streets enjoyable and safe for walking ( especially for women and disability ) . fifth , we need to reform how we manage our water resources and water infrastructure to enable this precious resource to be re-deployed several times and on a wide scale . we can also encourage households to consume less energy and companies to cut back on the energy that they waste .
in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling palestinians to live in the occupied territories that a genuine deal with israel is impossible . yet the celebration is likely to be short-lived . ramallah , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu , certainly has reason to celebrate . how netanyahu finagled that outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to continue building settlements on the occupied territories – will almost certainly have severe political and diplomatic consequences for israel . how netanyahu finagzes this outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to continue building settlements on the occupied territories – will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel .
an early test of the extent of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first-ever female fighter pilot . simply trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as russia ’s automatic eviction from the swift financial transfer system should it renege on any aspect of the treaty . of course , i am hoping that the new deal will last at last , finally bringing the peace process to ukraine . the savchenko had been on a hunger strike in russia for more than two months to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than she was to be imprisoned .
because of research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized data donation to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some light on this mystique . more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel in both directions , but the volume is lower than that of their populations : a country with 100 % more population than another has only around 70 % more entrepreneurial travel . prior to anyone ’s start slashing travel budgets , let ’s be able to understand why we need to move people , rather than information . in ongoing work with dan bahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some exciting stylized facts . why waste precious work time in our air , safety checks , and waiting for our baggage ?
too many italians have shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and failings , figuring that he will go away soon , having done little harm . in confronting trump , there can be no discount at all . the us can not afford to avoid making the same kind of mistake that the american people must have . but it has not gone away and done plenty of harm . the price of liberty , americans are fond of saying , is eternal vigilance .
beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” – an image that some government members have sought to cultivate – the rule of law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . the peruvian government is now facing a severe problem . specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval of a set of “ realistic ” ” procedures to reduce red tape perceived to be hampering investment in extractive industries , the very industries on which the economy should become much less dependent . the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , establish environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental mental-impact assessments . and , though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong .
when pundits weigh in on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically cite the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society – the relative newness of hard-won freedoms and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether homegrown dictatorship or colonial rule mean to individual freedom . the issue for the governments of president dilma rousseff – who has been herself imprisoned and tortured under the military – is that brazilians know exactly what is at stake . fifa and the government ’s reaction to brazil ’s recent protests adds to a risk of what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy . ( still fewer do they notice the role that women ’s ’s empowerment and feminism played in development . )
how , then , can nato help with this ? no romanian government can neglect of these norms . instead , it is now a military-political alliance that sets the democratic standard for new members and aspirants . how , then , can nato help with this ? no romanian government can neglect these norms .
one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition leader , juan guaidó , as the interim head of state after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . in terms of multiple political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey . a revolutionary delusion has broken down , vacating behind only the tyrannical rule of class corrupt tycoons – effectively a mob – that has bought into us military loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . at the same time , the mob ’s opponents are repressed , often brutally so .
the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , slashing banks ’ reserve requirement ratios – the momentum for restructuring could fade ; and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity will flow into the real sector . but , so far , efforts to lower funding costs have had limited impact . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial enterprises remains close to 7 % , while economic growth has edged down from 7.4 % in the last three months to 7.3 % today . the situation may not be dire , but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities pursue structural reform .
while such an approach would certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . drafted with a referendum on un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and the state for the jewish people , based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . instead of closing the door , such a redefinition of statehood offered the palestinian leadership with a much-needed symbolic achievement , including a framework from which to re-launch negotiations , a longstanding palestinian demand . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy .
robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , particularly with respect to privacy and safety . whether this is the best possible solutions is now the subject of much debate ; but , clearly , some form of compromise will have to be made . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this question than taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in the field of robotics . given that ongoing manufacturing changes have already started this trend , gates , and some within the european parliament suggest taxing robots to pay for human services .
heraclitus ’s warning against bathing in the same sea is twice lost on us economic ministers , who insist on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . “ everything . ” but , in fact , in argentina all of the time , all remain the same or become worse off . “ everything . ” so , too , goes the refrain in the wake of a famous argentine song . whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , raising concerns first over what happens when argentina pays back its foreign debt and then inevitably re-paying its debt under severe pressure from the international monetary fund and america .
shanghai – as the current international order becomes more fragmented , powerful global-governance institutions are critical to how to address the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . we have seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers , and refugees , migration , ebola , and an emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural vulnerabilities . the un is not broke down , but it is in trouble , especially as more countries treat it as a polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural vulnerabilities .
the decision to launch february 15 as a day of mass protests was ostensibly taken at a meeting of activists at the european social forum in florence in november last year . in ninety days , such organizers turned more than five million protestors out to be worldwide . mass action depended on local organizations seizing an initiative based on a loose global plan . there are three keys to this phenomenon . first , the internet has allowed for rapid worldwide dissemination of organizational plans at a extraordinarily low cost to the organizers .
how better to memorize this decision than to build a prison boom ? according to the american southern command spokesperson , which oversees gitmo , starvation strikers are disillusioned , owing to their belief that obama ’s ’s ’s ’s pledge to shut down gitmo . eight of the captives are now entering the second month of starvation strikes . the new gitmo facility is meant to be earmarked will home 106 prisoners ( a precise number remains insecure ) who have either been either tried or charged . indeed , they are cleared to leave , only obama ’s failure to uphold his promise – and the american congress ’s ’s failure to legislate their transfer – that keeps them there .
for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that strengthen dispute resolution and promote inclusiveness , countries could ensure that gains from increased chinese ( and other ) trade are shared broadly . at the same time , the world may decide how to facilitate more or less flows of technologies that are increasingly subject to security reviews . it is important to note that these choices are not just china ’s ; the world , too , has decision-making to make . according to the us simulation , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on the extent to which technology flows are commercializing innovation and productivity growth . technology flows and innovation : increased technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would support competitive devaluations globally , productivity-enhancing solutions ; lower flows would undermine global productivity .
to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen has argued in 2007 , technical considerations make exiting the eurozone difficult , expensive , and dangerous . whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland , which is out of the eurozone as a whole , has de facto recovered . it is hard to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout from the economic fallout would accrue to even a quarter of that . but that is just one side of the ledger . using iceland as our measuring stick , greece ’s costs not exiting the eurozone are equivalent to 75 % of gdp – and counting .
last march , as rumors circulated that he was losing the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be under threat should he lose , noting his responsibility to maintain order . there is only one way to account for america ’s american administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage iran from iraq during his first term in office . last march , as rumors circulated to his loss of the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be under threat should he lose , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he lost , he demanded a recount , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as the commander-in-chief . there is only one way to account for america ’s administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his first presidential election campaign to disengage iran from iraq .
in fact , i am not convinced that osborne himself has ever been attached to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . in fact , i am not convinced that osborne himself has ever been attached to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . the signal – in this case , his promise to “ balance ” – creates reality . people start behaving as though the books were balanced , ignoring . in its emphasis on the significance of signaling , economics enters postmodernist territory .
for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging resilient strains of the disease . but it is also a moment of opportunity , at least for now . our focus is now on completing the clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . in response to the dwindling donor funds , ghanaian ’s government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch ghana ’s malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent funding gaps , but will ultimately help lead to sustainable , domestic efforts to eradicate malaria from the ground up . this is a challenging moment in the fight against malaria .
if sunnis come to believe that shi’a and kurds are intent on treating them as second-class citizens , they will have little stake in maliki ’s government ’s success and might begin to pursue their own political interests by other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . worse still , factional conflict would undermine further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity . there are good reasons for iraq to shun lebanon . otherwise , a country of different interest groups might like lebanon ’s feuding factions turn to outsiders to negotiate solutions to its problems . even at its best , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating in the shadow of a major shia-dominated militancy .
that ’s not to say that america ’s trade partners should let off the hook on unfair practices . trumponomics appears likely to exacerbate america ’s ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead . but it does imply limited hope for resolving apparently chronic trade deficits – and the related erosion of domestic hiring to those imbalances – if america does not begin to save it again . america had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 – a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific remedies . alas , that conspiracy is about to thicken .
for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now a columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-ra “ i. ” arab intellectuals , and , indeed , the wider arab public , are now busy advocating an awareness and understanding of the lessons of the iraqi earthquake . across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th sees themselves as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th , when israel defeated the armies of three arab countries , conquest , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in a mere six days . arab intellectuals , and indeed the wider arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraqi earthquake . their tactic has been to obstruct a clear review of the iraq disaster by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting america ’s occupation of iraq . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and others are now busy advocating a similar old totalitarian mindset .
given that china remains one of the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its standing as the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s largest capital exporter , signifies gross resource misallocation . meanwhile , a lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) could be the result of its increased investment-income deficits . and , while recovery in advanced economies has boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than it did in 2012 , has caused investment growth , albeit at a rapid pace , to decline to its lowest level in the last 11 years . in principle , a country can run current-account deficits or surpluses continuously for decades . nonetheless , china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainability of the organization ’s global footprint , humanity will increasingly use the earth ’s resource budget for the entire year to come . while humanity ’s increasing environmental impact manifests itself in a number of ways , the impact on climate change has the broadest – and longest-lasting – impact . this “ earth overshoot day ” has been moving forward by an astonishing two months in the last 20 years , and in 2019 . carbon-dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . the economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left by a one-party state . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression has been amply demonstrated in every region of china in 1989 . some people , even party members , still have faith in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . the communist government has managed to remain in power after tiananmen not only through brute force .
even in an advanced economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at a market rate . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing , or struggled financially , owing to the cost of housing ; that figure is projected to rise to $ 440 million by 2025 . but , given pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . the world ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of them in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new homes of homes by 2025 . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue in emerging countries .
berkeley – one need not be especially good at hearing to decry the dog whistles in this year ’s united states election campaign . all of this fear-mongering mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare here . listen even briefly and you will understand that mexicans and the chinese are collaborating with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob america ’s workers of its rightful jobs , and that muslims want to blow everyone behind . all of this fear-mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare here . listen even briefly , and you will understand that mexicans and the chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob america ’s workers of its rightful jobs , and that muslims want to blow everyone out .
professor nicola rossi , the economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , at the title of his recent book , expresses a desire that we give “ less to our fathers and more to our sons . ” but if unions are powerful or seniors are in the majority ( in italy ’s two coincide , because seniors comprise a majority in all labor unions ) , the exact opposite happens . here is the spectacular delusion of italy ’s budget and the country ’s finance ministry . put into these terms , the problem is always solved by giving more to those with the most political power . italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted nor the issue of fiscal reform , demonstrates this fully .
across the world , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school . beyond these figures , children and youth are being denied not only a right , but an opportunity : a just chance to get a decent job , escaping poverty , supporting their families , and developing their communities . and , like other human rights issues , this can not be taken for granted . oslo – education for all – is a human right ; it is part of the world ’s poorest countries . globally , more than 120 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school .
small farmers , both women and men , comprise africa ’s largest agricultural investors . on average , they apply fewer than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to about 140 kilograms in india . moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely employed . but african farmers encounter substantial barriers to their ability to fulfill their potential . and agriculture-led growth is more than twice that of poverty reduction in other industries .
the question now is whether the decision-makers are prepared to use them . gm foods have now been on the market in the us for more than 12 years . are the risks so high as to justify the suffering that might have been avoided ? gm foods have now been on the market in the us for over 12 years . but why are developing-country governments stepping up their feet ?
to be sure , there are some good economic reasons why us lenders enjoy so much debt appetite . but policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role . the derivatives market certainly helps to propagate risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the underlying point stands . of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , nearly three-quarters are in some form of debt instruments , including bank lending , corporate bonds , and us government securities . imperfect information and monitoring difficulties pose significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments .
for starters , italy ’s interests may not align itself with those of china . italian exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) annually , while eu imports account for about € 29 billion . whereas italy has received some € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have invested € 10.5 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , signing contracts for bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given constrained lending by its banks . nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it , as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy toward china .
and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have brought some short-term benefits , notably to the poor . to be sure , many latin american leaders have risen to power in recent decades to leveling the playing field ’s promise . relying on commodity revenues to fund their social-welfare programs , these leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve economic fundamentals . but such arrangements have often been plagued by populism , and ultimately have done more harm than good . after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , public ’s patience has worn thin .
members of congress have expressed outright fear of a trump presidency with no guardrails . his eloquent resignation letter has made it clear that he has objected not only to syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s ’s ’s confusion of allies and opponents ; his willingness to abandon friends , such as the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , such as nato . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . mattis ’s friends have explained in tv interviews that what most troubling the retired grand marine general and defense intellectual was not only that he can no longer affect policy , but also that his remaining standing within trump ’s cabinet has been hollowing out as trump ’s affirmation , a position that he can no longer bear . even that thomas piketty , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued statements on thursday that he was “ distressed ” by trump ’s departure from mattis ( a notable sign , many believe , mcconnell ’s private worries about trump ’s impact on the republican party . )
the regime is set to demonstrate to the world that china , again a world power , can stage a spectacular performance , one that its voice would be heeded . rather , it should be encouraged to promote growth , while protecting its monopoly on power . the government has strengthened its security system , putting in place a ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras . but china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s priority is not only to perpetuate economic growth . visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effect of harming international trade in china .
the center-right ’s traditional policies would not easily be compatible with a strong internationalist bent . at a time of ceaseless economic disruptions , this would all but matter more . it would have to become internationalist left-leaning leader , or internationalist right-leaning one . it would have to become internationalist left-leaning leader , or internationalist right-leaning one . at a time of ceaseless economic disruptions , this will all become more consequential .
as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently highlighted , “ if only 1 % of china ’s smoking has been turned to e-cigarettes , this would mean a market of about 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ” but , despite substantial progress toward china ’s e-cigarette industries in 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 web-based manufacturers , up 200 % since 2012 , accounting for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes continue to dominate the chinese market . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product , invented in china in 2003 . but there is an alternative that could help to appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue loss stemming from the outright prohibition of smoking : electronic cigarettes . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently highlighted , “ if only ” 1 % of china ’s smoking population had turned to e-cigarettes , this would mean a market of around 3.5 million e-cigarette users .
even if a government tries to uphold its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it may not get the desired results . agreeing on quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is easy . but countries automatically regard adherence to such targets as sacrifice : in trying to reduce emissions by x tons , the us would lose y million jobs , with gdp falling by $ z billion . in the absence of actual sanctions or punishment for noncompliance , when push comes to shove , governments can simply turn into a change in thinking . the reason that un climate conferences maintain failure is straightforward : their agendas – centered on voluntary , quantitative targets – are fundamentally flawed .
declining commercial costs have enabled firms to splinter their manufacturing lines geographically , with processed goods and value added within multiple countries along the chain . whereas china provides just 4 % of value-added items , it supplies core components to apple at low prices . this would provide the opportunity for chinese smartphone firms to seize market share from major players . today , 80 % of global trade comprises international supply chains . apple can not build the iphone from american companies , so it would need to seek alternative suppliers to raise its own manufacturing costs .
third , a higher ceo ’s pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . financial economists view such luck-based compensation as an expression of governance challenges . in firms with a high ceo pay slice , the probability of ceo turnover following poor performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s length of service ) has been lower . in firms with a high ceo pay slice , the probability of ceo turnover following poor performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s length of service ) is lower . financial economists view such luck-based compensation as a sign of governance challenges .
to start , europe must foster community in the postcommunist countries by restoring civil society . if europe is to become one , so long as the european union is to take in the new postcommunist democracies -- which is in everyone 's interest -- a set of vital tasks must take place , within new democracies , as well as within the euro-atlantic community . any weighty occurrence provokes repercussions across the continent . there is only one european , despite its diversity . for a living society can not be restructured from above .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will merely prolong the conflict . this approach offers the best chance of bringing an end to the current confrontation , and compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . the sooner the west can convinces russia to its leaders that it will not back down , the sooner the conflict will take place . the eu and the us must remain firm and unified within their policies toward russia . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia must earn back on the trust it broke , demonstrated its commitment to adhere to the treaties and international norms of behavior toward which it agreed .
nowadays , greece ’s european creditors seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some crumbs out of the country ’s pensioners . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo heightened market pressures . but the us is running a tenth of its time … . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit from its exit , the world will never again trust europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s longevity . nine times outside the eu , nothing really serious is happening ; simply a little distress for individuals or groups .
for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy , in which wealth determines status , or gerontocracy , in which age leads one in the top down , or even an aristocracy , in which counts are inherited titles and properties . but , on closer inspection , things are not all that straightforward matter . so , too , meritocracy seems to be preferable , at least at first glance . much of those at the very top are not only the civil service and the judiciary ; it is also the politics , entrepreneurship , and academia that have been used to breed graduates of renowned grandes and characteristics .
most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . as a result , america wastes some of its most precious assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities . at america ’s most elite universities , for example , just about 9 % of students come from below half that of the us , compared to 74 % since the middle quarter . in america , however , more is spent on rich students ’ education than on educating the poor . some countries have even imposed a constitutional mandate to ensure that young people can live up to their potential .
for several decades , le pen has used oil revenues to purchase relative public quiescence through massive grants . but those reserves have been concentrated in the south , and have thus been lost when south sudan ’s seceded in 2011 . even if sudan ’s ’s ’s ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability is far from assured . the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless it transfers power to civilian authority . and now , political stability is gone .
as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s ’s food supplies are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . now , a third solution is emerging : vertical farming . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses using an artificial-light process to grow crops – can ensure considerable savings , which could then pass along with consumers . but questions regarding such farm ’ fundamental economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . istanbul – the challenge of securing adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population – is daunting , particularly given key resource constraints like water and farmland .
pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so vital an issue . what this means is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to account for the changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than making fixed promises -- which most likely can not keep them , anyway -- of some payroll-out in the future . what matters , then , is that the problem is political : pensioners and tax institutions must be designed to reflect on the changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than making fixed promises -- which most likely can not keep them , anyway -- of some payroll-out in the future . still , we must face squarely the intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , with politicians loath to confront them on so fundamental issues .
this can only worsen europe ’s ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects . lower financing costs for public debt appear to be a net gain in society , because the government then saves debt service and can keep taxes lower . but any gains from lower taxes are more than offset by private-sector losses , which , facing higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn lowering economic growth , and thus cutting government revenue . many steps taken in recent years to reinforce the banking system ’s regulation . but what is proposed now will make lending to investment even less attractive , and raise incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector .
the plo has succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . to effect change in israel , america is launching a variety of trial balloons . instead , the americans have their own ideas regarding how to achieve a breakthrough , particularly with israel , something that the obama administration believes is now a major obstacle . when palestinians ask mitchell for assurances that the us would endorse such statehood if talks fail , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make negotiations meaningless . the only obstacle that remains to palestinian leaders is american .
his physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his or her knowledge or consent , established treaties , and marketed rights to the swiss pharmaceutical firm to make drugs “ mo ” from the cell lines . the commercial calculus behind such entrepreneurship sometimes provoked riots until anatomy laws enabled the bodies of executed murderers and unclaimed dead to be deployed , thus reassuring middle class individuals that their bodies would not engage with them . the most well-known case regarding the body as properties is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at the ucla school of medicine in 1976 . these old tensions assumed new dimensions to be the commercial potential of human tissue catches through entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are pending to address cells ’ uses , tissues , and genes .
black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns the whole country as never before , but almost nowhere are there nationalist undertones . in fact , the flags of many nations fly alongside germany . in berlin , as in other large german cities , taxi stores are sporting flags in their respective drivers ’ home countries – from angola to saudi arabia . france and germany ’s black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns all of the country as never before , but almost nowhere are there nationalist undertones . but the germans , undaunted by it , simply keep celebrating one great soccer party with its newfound friends from around the world .
to stop the ebola outbreak from escalating further , the relevant actors – from health workers to government officials – must re-engage with affected communities to win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in space for just 100 days . thisharking experience has left behind destroyed assets , failed states , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national essential immunization coverage has fallen below 30 % . meanwhile , the epidemic ’s ’s ’s death toll has continued to rise .
at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with business leaders and civil society – will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . it has existed as long as governments have ; but , like other crimes , they have grown increasingly sophisticated over the past few decades , with their devastating effects on the well-being and dignity of countless innocent citizens . for starters , there is a danger that corruption cripples across cultures and throughout history . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with business leaders and civil society – will face a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . corruption is decried across cultures and throughout history .
yingluck ’s government has refused to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to amend the senate from a semi-appointed to a fully elected chamber . but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to backtrack on amnesty ’s measures has failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , the street protests have intensified , fueled by a fresh grievance . the protests began when the government sought to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned former prime minister thaksin shinawatra – yingluck ’s brother and ptp – ’s founder , who was overthrown by the army in 2006 – on charges of corruption and abuse of power . likewise , yingluck ’s government has refused to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to amend the senate from a semi-appointed chamber .
eu member states are more divided now than ever , even on the most fundamental issues concerning the european project . new presidents of the european commission , the council of europe , the council of europe , and the european central bank will appoint a new high representative to the union for foreign affairs and security policy . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been superseded by resurgent nationalism . if euroskeptic parties become the largest single group in the european parliament , such appointments could represent a abrupt break from the past . moreover , the east is increasingly courting the west and north against the south .
freetown , sierra leone – donors such as the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in national health systems . but when countries rush to build more clinics , resulting facilities tend to be hastily constructed and lacking in facilities , supply , and staffing needed to deliver vital health services effectively . in my frequent visits to rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a few health facilities that could make communities work without . but , while rushing to construct clinics , resulting facilities tend to be hastily constructed and lacking in facilities , supply , and staffing needed to deliver vital health services effectively . the recent ebola outbreak in west africa highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and resilient health-care systems in developing countries .
wilson , for example , would probably concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . likewise , he would likely advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the wealthiest companies and households financing , say , infrastructure development , quality education , and universal health care . to be sure , if wilson were to be alive today , he might agree to trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would vary widely . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulation through a rules-based multilateral process . indeed , it is problematic that american banks and firms can export capital , technologies , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for domestic costs .
when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of our labor force was proficient in english . unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , particularly those outside the firm , assumed that i was a little crazy . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are peddling us advice in how to build a global brand headquartered in japanese capital . the goal has been to lay the groundwork for global expansion in an industry that is competing aggressively for internet-savvy talent . in march 2010 , however , in a move that i believe was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” a marshall plan to make english our corporate language work within two years .
tax hikes and cuts in public spending continue to be required ; there is no avoiding this reality . europe is a second vicious spiral run from fiscal consolidation to sluggish growth and back toward fiscal consolidation . but that would only further weaken the banks ’ credit portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to strengthen them . the ecb ’s decision to grant banks unlimited liquidity does not resolve governments ’ debt problems , or is that its intent . but it at least impedes the problem of debt problem from creating banking problems , which in turn worsen the debt problem .
indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , technicians , and medical professionals . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policies contribute to america ’s 60 % of the world ’s new drugs , compared to more than 40 % just ten years ago . this sterility and inertia make europe less and less interesting for americans . thus , the american eyes are turning elsewhere : to china , with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % per year in and year out , to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth . this sterility and inertia make europe less and less interesting for americans .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people were killed across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes that rely on traditional warning systems suffered no discernible casualties . such tribes might be isolated , but their demise would have serious consequences . when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people died across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes that rely on traditional warning systems suffered no well-known casualties . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies were pitted directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , oil drillers , hunters , and other interlopers . but they are likely to die far more quickly if we suddenly engage with them , bringing with america ’s modern pathogen against which they had no antibodies .
of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty has been overwhelmingly usurped by the soviet union , are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making and have a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries are . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainties stemming from globalization . i have seen firsthand the eagerness and hopes of their peoples at this momentous . in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others did poland ’s entry into european atlantic institutions . that is why it is so difficult to comprehend their position today .
no particular country or group has formed international maritime law as it now exists . it is the product of humankind ’s ’s collective wisdom , having cultivated over a great number of years for the well-being of all . but what , precisely , does this really mean ? if we are distill the spirit that we infused into international law over the ages and reformulate it as three principles , the rule of law at sea becomes a matter of shared purpose . today , many benefits for humanity depend on the seas from the pacific to the indian oceans that remained fully open .
when the perpetrators of sexual violence appeal is challenged in high-profile settings such as the un , it becomes hard for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . to be sure , effective solutions must consider the local context . for starters , armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . moreover , people who live in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal ends have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence , such as forced pregnancies . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help to predict and avoid its use .
a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , the eu ’s members agreed to respect the history , culture , and traditions of all of their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which recently failed to gain acceptance in the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect the cultural legacy ; it obliges the union to work actively to preserve , preserve , and develop europe ’s cultural and linguistic wealth . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively easy to convey . but europe can succeed in this task only unless its various constituent cultures seal itself off from one another . because an enlarged union will become a reality in only two months , it is imperative to develop concepts for cultural understanding that contribute to new members ’ successful integration .
if successfully implemented , this agenda is likely to reverse the global savings and consumption patterns that underpin large imbalances in recent years . doubling average household incomes by 2020 – a target set by the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november – is likely to release $ 64 trillion in renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power parity terms , with china ’s ’s huge internal market gradually becoming a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth . this model presupposes that china develop domestic capital , rather than simply relying on foreign investment . to be sure , global saving and consumption patterns have undergone a major change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china seeking to restore internal rebalancing . china has a responsibility to the savings side , while america disproportionately accounts for the consumption side , ultimately transforming the chinese to america ’s creditors .
after all , four decades of evidence has now shown that corporations in europe , like america , are evading women ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion to top positions , regardless of how much “ soft pressure ” to impose them . but when one considers the hurdles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it does look as though a fairer world must be mandated temporarily . i understand re-leveraging ’s reticence – and her level of frustration . when women break through to a corporate power summit , as for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook , they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception to the rule . i do n’t like quotas either ; they run counter to my faith in meritocracy .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed with india ’s ’s last parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i had not been born to a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i had entered a race without the political “ godfather . ” i had not been born to a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i had entered a race without the political “ godfather . ” by contrast , all of the other contenders in my constituency – indeed , a majority of contenders throughout the country – had devoted their entire lives to politics , many of them since their student days . i was not a professional politician ; i had lacked my adult life working abroad for the united nations .
the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state is now a “ 50-50 society ” : half cosmopolitan , half communitarian . even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . in these countries , the government at any given time represents whichever side has won the latest round in an ongoing culture war . even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . the fdp has abandoned the talks out of frustrations that , as its leader christian lindner put it , the four debates partners have neither common vision for the country ’s modernization or a shared foundation of trust .
for starters , every country needs to define an crime of online child trafficking and integrate it into its national penal codes alongside harsh penalties for violators . likewise , all recruitment activity , advertising and financial transactions linked to online child trafficking should be criminalized . parents need to build up their bridges of trust in order to allow their children to feel open about their own problems . likewise , all recruitment , advertising , and financial transactions linked to online child trafficking should be criminalized . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers .
such reforms are crucial to improving guyana ’s life prospects . if more teenagers had access to sex education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives cut off from pregnancy . such spaces should open up after school , and on weekends , staffed by knowledgeable adults . specialized attention must be devoted to rural regions and people with special needs , the often-overlooked youth-population segment . moreover , communities need increased access to sexual education and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared .
mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of working-age populations would prefer to earn income , whether primary or secondary , from independent work . but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , independent work is likely to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . many are low - and middle-income workers , who would otherwise be unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and thus employment – growth would lower the number of workers engaged in an independent labor force . whereas digital labor platforms remain early on , with only 15 % of freelance workers , they are proliferating and proliferating .
in this they were realists , but they did demand a measure of civic control over the authorities , both within the political and the economic sphere . demands for the abolition of censorship were one of the polish march ’s first political slogans of the march 68 . crucially , the protesters did not seek free elections ; they did not . one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ” demands for freedom of assembly , as well as for the right , to organize itself .
adopting negative interest rates – originally launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) , and now negative interest rates – one futile attempt begets another . previously , the emphasis on boosting aggregate demand – primarily by lowering borrowing costs – was shifted to lowering borrowing costs , but also by spurring wealth effects from appreciating financial assets . just when the first two gambits were unable to gain meaningful economic traction amid chronically weak recoveries , a reversal to negative rates will only compound the risks of financial fragility and set the stage for future crises . the new haven – in what might well represent an eventual act of desperation – is abdicating central banks to manage them .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . this , in turn , has stimulated greater dependence on highly polluting coal – the worst source of energy , from the standpoint of global warming . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policies have also proven to be ruinously expensive . as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the price of permits fell below three euros per ton in april 2013 rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant .
in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits are often balanced by bilateral trade surpluses with other countries . thus , china may have a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , but these bilateral balances imply nothing about china ’s overall contributions to global imbalances . the challenge facing the imf is formidable , at least for now . it will obviously matter for the fund to focus on global imbalances rather than bilateral imbalances . while china may want to buy oil from the middle east , those in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – may care more about gucci handbags than about china ’s massachusetts manufactured goods .
the us was the world ’s seventh-most stressed population in 2018 , less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . such stress-related actions are in keeping to another notable finding : america ’s self-reported happiness has also declined in 2018 . asked by gallup how they would rate their lives on a scale ranging from zero ( worst of life ) to ten ( 45 % ) in 2018 , americans reacted with a average of 6.9 , down from 7.0 in 2017 , and 7.3 during 2006-2008 . such stress actions are in keeping with yet another notable finding : america ’s self-reported happiness has also declined in 2018 . stress , concern , and rage all hit ten-year american highs in 2018 .
to this end , banks should make their values and culture integral to hiring , firing , and enforcing decision-making . employees need to understand an instinctively what might be done , and what should never be done . constant reminders and repetition are essential . a written code – which emphasizes commercial contributions to ethical conduct , with adverse consequences for falling short – is part of that effort , and can help preserve and enhance culture ; but a code of conduct alone is insufficient . they need to internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical norms of behavior .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote , and today the majority of women in the developed world are enfranchised . that is certainly true in pakistan , where the general election set by july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . but , in many developing countries , the resentment that the british suffragettes faced 100 years ago , rooted in misogyny ’s triumph . at first glance , pakistan appears progressive . the law has allowed women to vote since 1956 , nearly ten years after independence from britain .
in some cases , the outcome was unexpected : some lending rates actually rose . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis deteriorated and unemployment climbed to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . none foresaw a crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , they recovered some semblance of full employment . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis deteriorated and unemployment soared to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . in fact , they went on to take advantage of old discredited models , perhaps mildly modified .
its members , including his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his latest wife , had been as incompetent at governing as kim , but then following the cultural revolution ’s catastrophe , antagonism toward them within the army and other state institutions has been all too widespread to last . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism and then from marxism to capitalism have been fortunate for china ’s citizens . because he had no son to succeed , mao designated a five-person politburo standing committee to do the job . but mao ’s death did , at least , end the caesarism era in china . they , and a gang of four ( of which jiang qing had been a member ) , soon ousted .
the us in ukraine has learned this truth from the harsh lessons of the communist era . though communism may , each now and then , coexist with private property , and sometimes with private enterprise , it may never coexist with civil society . but reviving civil society – the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life is a complicated task , as the peoples of egypt and tunisia are about to discover well . in ukraine , freedom of speech was on communism ’s decline , restored overnight . we in ukraine have learned this truth from the harsh lessons of the communist era .
even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke a principle of collective defense under article 5 of nato ’s treaty ? would he have summoned putin to ask what should be a matter of course ? finally , imagine how trump might respond . then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies reaffirmed that an act of aggression was indeed underway , despite putin ’s denials . and would putin make another “ unbelievable ” offer to help us investigators get to the bottom line ?
so 2019 could turn out to be the next year of solid global growth . the baseline scenario for the us is still strong growth . europe ’s growth could be above trend , just as it continues its long , slow recovery from its pre-crisis debt crisis . and china ’s economy has been showing doubters wrong in many years . but these outside risks are not making the outlook for global growth necessarily grim .
argued by eugene scalia , the son of america ’s supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec has been won in the american court of appeals , dc , on technicality , – the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead . at a conference last december , i asked sec mary chairwoman sriro , when her agency intends to reintroduce the rule . that small victory turned to a major defeat for shareholders , when the sec , rather than performing such an analysis and re-proposing the rule , chosen to stall . i have even offered to do the cost-benefit analysis for free action . argued by eugene scalia , the son of america ’s supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec was won in the american court of appeals , dc , on technicality , – the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead .
the european central bank ’s reaction has been analogous to that of the fed , but less forcefully , with monetary policy easier than the headline inflation rate suggests . and , in western europe as a whole , gdp is now declining . in july , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to the financial crisis , but did not overreact . in july , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to the financial crisis but did not overreact . but these are not normal times , either . indeed , the fed ’s expansionary monetary policy was insufficient to stave off an american recession , albeit one that remains so moderate that many doubt whether it qualifies as a true animal .
when the opposition sought to challenge these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki to be the victor . likewise , eu observers reported that the elections tally had failed to meet basic international standards . elections are a catastrophe for kenya , but america ’s response to the us-led international community is no less distressing . days later , the eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters had pressured it to announce the “ results ” immediately , despite clear evidence of vote rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who actually won .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , particularly in germany . but it is hard for monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of trade barriers . given that market-based measures currently conflict with most other key economic data , little weight should be attached to them . moreover , a host of related problems associated with risk premiums is making such indicators hard to interpret . as a result , unsurprisingly , surveys of households ’ and firms ’ inflation expectations predict more precisely .
as a recent morgan stanley report highlighted , the pharmaceutical industry ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s current success rates are insufficient to sustain large internal r & d organizations , making the industry ’s current operating model financially non-viable . but pharmaceutical companies continue to withhold assumptions about the boundaries of the pre-competitive collaborative effort that must be challenged . drugs that make it into the market must fund the cost of failure . at first glance , it seems counter-intuitive that us companies want to share data and potentially give away competitive advantage . but this presupposes that holding such data together imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed operating model is financially sustainable .
while the iranian government could most likely be discouraged from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear-armed iran could well become a regional arms race – a nuclear-armed saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . attempting to compel iran to retreat with steadily mounting sanctions has failed to yield results . indeed , the market has already undertaken a previous week ’s measure of tensions , driving the price of some oil contracts to their highest levels in eight months . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s oil prices , is a appalling scenario . despite the tightening economic noose – america ’s imposed sanctions on all firms doing business with iran ’s ’s central bank , and the european union ’s plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports in late january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb .
post-crisis harmonization fervor in italy implies that it will now become more costly everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected interest-rate changes . a levy is an easy way to spread the political and financial costs of a crisis from some to all eu members . the same goes for the derivatives trading system . if applied , bank capital would scarcer , credit flows slower , and bank fees higher in countries with pretty stable financial sectors , simply because others have spent a fortune supporting their financial systems , and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules across the eu . that levy , vigorously backed by those countries whose financial sectors are in tatters after a crisis , is hard to swallow for eu states that have failed to intervene to bail out their banks .
learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted financing from some of the largest venture capital firms in silicon valley , sets out partnerships with employers to offer online vocational training modules that connect job seekers with specific job seekers , mainly entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . and , indeed , once the candidates completed the training , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers that already comprise a few big companies . california ’s community college system already works with learnup to give students access to the skills required to fill available local jobs . at & t offers scholarships through partner not-for-profit institutions , providing paid internships for as little as 100 graduates .
at the same time , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own failings , particularly the failure of morsi and his government to reach out to secular opposition elements , elements that contributed to his electoral victory . president mohamed morsi ’s government has struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the enormous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists have sought not only freedom , but also economic development and social justice . at the same time , the muslim brotherhood has been a victim of its own blunders , particularly by morsi ’s own government and his government ’s failure to reach out to secular opposition elements , elements that have contributed to his electoral victory . at the same time , president mohamed morsi ’s government has appeared incapable of recognizing that a slim electoral majority is insufficient , particularly in the past . the fact that the coup was carried out with massive popular support is a hallmark of the muslim brotherhood ’s troubles during its first turn in power .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial , charged with complicity in the rwandan genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , begin in paris . sadly , the mass killings in africa continue to take place . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state , the massacres of civilians continue to take place , particularly around the mediterranean . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue to appear in africa , perhaps on a greater scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope . and french military interventions in the central african republic have not brought an end to severe inter-communal violence .
europeans may not mind this right now ( one sees more obama ’s t-shirts in europe than they are in the us ) , but they might not be so happy if george bush iii came along . fortunately , europeans probably will not wait so long to start moving ahead . one shudders to think of what will happen unless europe withdraws from its present funk . moreover , with growing concerns over america ’s sustainability , europe has an enormous opportunity to play a substantially larger role as a reserve-currency role . one shudders to think of what will happen unless europe withdraws from its present funk .
a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force – a major challenge , given that japanese society is rapidly aging . the third arrow is not the traditional industrial-policy-based approach . that implies that it was inappropriate to focus on growth until the gap in deflation narrowed greatly , which is until then . a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor market – a major challenge , given that japanese society is rapidly aging . by contrast , he emphasizes labor reform , deregulation , and lower corporate-tax rates .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of chaos emerging from gaza that israel has vacillated and the collapse of a palestinian authority before our eyes . the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense is progress “ at the margins , ” but the rapid pace of technological change is pushing the us to expect equally rapid advances in human affairs . nor will the emergence of yet another providential figure come easily . many in the us believe that such an impossible wager can be met simply by a providential man , with all the hopes – and dangers – that this entails . many in the us believe that such an impossible wager can be met simply by a providential man , with all the hopes – and dangers – that this entails .
still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including measures related to the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . the uk is in no position to block the other eu ’s member states from deeper integration , given most other member states ’ political will to push ahead . indeed , last year ’s eu negotiations over the “ fiscal compact ” should already demonstrate to cameron the difficulty of exercising a so-called national veto . uk leadership in such areas has been widely appreciated , and would sorely lack the eu should decide to leave . so , while the cameron government ’s ’s ’s ’s support for deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eu can not and will not emerge from outside and with british interests .
in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was dispatched to the sunni city of hama , where assad ’s father ordered his massacre 30 years earlier . it is already clear that the obama administration did not know what it had been bargaining for when , with no thought of what would come next , it invited assad ’s removal in 2011 . but they would fault the us for not comprehending a wider war . according to the us state department at that time , the visit ’s point was to “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and to express itself . ” did the us administration really not anticipate that assad , like his father before him , will be responding to a popular uprising with violence ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , are under growing pressure to float the currency . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and an open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates would provide incentives for market participants to borrow against foreign currencies and shift them to domestic currency investment . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . all advanced-economy students are taught the mundell-fleming model that an economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movements , and a more independent monetary policy at the same time . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank , in an bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling domestic currency , especially to american dollars , until interest rates and money-supply returned to their previous levels .
american presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : a 15 % tax credit for corporate profits that companies distribute to workers in less than two years . to cap costs and prevent abuses , profits totaling more than 10 % on the employee ’s wage level would be voted out ; the overall level offered by individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against substitution of profit sharing for wages raises and other benefits would be established . likewise , tax credit could foster change in corporate culture by spurring board-level discussions not only of profit-sharing benefits , but also of sharing information and employee decision-making authority . by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies to compensate for the administrative costs of setting a profit-sharing program . america ’s stagnant incomes are undermining economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and on the supply side ( via the adverse effect on educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is at last tackling corruption . and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even though , like abyzov and ishayev , they have retired out of public services and no influence any longer . but it is the message to russia ’s ’s shaken elites , who are more relevant . most russians see no connection between prosecution of key figures and the authorities ’ credibility . moreover , selective repression has become harsher .
last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge and policy in incheon , south korea issued its message beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . better indicators would reveal the highly negative – and potentially long-run – effects of a deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers may not have been so enamored of austerity , which kept fiscal deficits low , properly measured , even more so . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . a new report emphasizes several topics , such as trust and insecurity , that were addressed only briefly by mismeasuring our lives and explores a few others , such as inequality and sustainability , more deeply . it also supported a successor to the commission , a high-level expert group on measurement of economic performance and social progress .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about financial markets ’ reform and regulation of financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself moving toward … mak [ ing ] purchasing an investment constant and indissoluble system , like marriage .... ” and it is why , even in the face of a deep financial crisis , we remain frozen today . it is for these reasons that we seem to have appeared to be frozen for past generations , or two whenever we contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . but he immediately drew back : the fact that each individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is “ liquid ” ( though that may not be true of all investors collectively ) calms his nerves and makes him far more willing to run a risk … ” seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about the reform and regulation of financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moved toward … . ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he play into professional investment ” is intolerably boring and over-exacting to anyone who is fully exempt from gamblers instinct ; the whilst whom he has it had to pay for that propensity to do the appropriate toll … .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon of import tariffs on ethanol , compared with no us tariff on oil and just a $ 0.5 per us gallon of gasoline taxes . massive subsidies mean that the us has become the world ’s largest ethanol producer . yet , despite this enormous advantage , some foreign firms may still be able to make it into the american market . this contrasts sharply with the $ 0.51 per gallon of subsidies that american companies ( an enormous proportion that goes to a single firm ) get on ethanol . thus , foreign producers can not compete unless their cost is $ 1.05 per gallon below that of american producers .
moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate a small majority in favor of legalization , opponents remain vehement . the legal and political challenges implied by this are no minor matter : marijuana remains an illicit substance under us federal law and the international conventions that america has upheld . on other issues – notably , immigration – obama rejects the claims of us states ’ rights and insists on federal authority . just as important has been us president barack obama ’s reaction to the colorado and washington votes – both states that he won easily in his re-election bid . the results have not only elicited a clash between america ’s federal legislation and state legislation ; they are also signaling a shift in attitudes not so far between same-sex marriage .
about four million northerners were denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they were progeny of migrants from neighboring countries . the outcome was catastrophic , because ethnic rivalries sharpened . regional and religious tensions were mounting since houphouet of death and were aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined in ethnic discrimination . whatever else being said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight left little doubt about the gains in social stability seen in the ivory coast during that period , until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colony . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 brought forth a new “ democratic ” constitution , which became an invitation to civil war .
in the long run , they probably also want the state to grant political loyalists the right to productive and transfer knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge ceases to be a civil right . these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power , hold a clear agenda , and engage in the fact that education in europe is the responsibility of national governments , rather than brussels-based institutions . these governments want to establish an education system on the basis of which the state chooses which fields of research are both necessary and socially significant . political trustworthiness determines who can teach and should study what about a country and its past .
mark leonard , managing director of the european council on foreign relations and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council of geo-economics , noted that interdependencies , have now become a threat as well . this has left people everywhere , both rich and poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failed states to failed banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but can not address effectively . despite all of its undeniable advantages , it has spawned governance problems and governance challenges that have exposed the inadequacies of national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions have unleashed the rise of political resistance and disaster risk on many fronts . mark leonard , director of the council of the european council on foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , has noted that interdependency , formerly economically boon , has now become a threat .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been driven by the concept of a country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , because the most notable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature , but the fact that china has provided president mahinda rajapaska with both the military supplies and the diplomatic cover it required to prosecute the war . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system , it has now proven its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . on sri lanka ’s ’s path to peaceful rise , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” has been completed . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have had neither the wherewithal nor the willingness to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tamil tigers .
when alexander hamilton , america ’s first treasury secretary , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement a new american nation . when alexander hamilton , america ’s first american finance minister , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement a new american nation . but france ’s mutualization of debt yielded enormous moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively . george soros , for his part , underestimates the risks that debt mutualization poses to the eurozone ’s future . germany has the greatest exposure by far among european crisis-stricken countries , thereby helping to ease austerity than any other country .
in terms of global health alone , the year has appeared to be one of the unrelenting tragedy . beyond the stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombarded , the zika virus has emerged as a growing threat . hong kong – looking back on 2016 – may not seem much to celebrate . there has also been proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes or “ superbugs ” – the continued revival of yellow fever , and the re-emergence of polio in nigeria that had previously been denounced as polio-free . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine have been dashed .
when it comes to securing equity capital in banking , such precedents and existing institutions point the way forward . during a new era , regulators included the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . but such mandates were removed during a wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks quickly shifting away from low-cost financial services and toward higher-profit-oriented activities . history also demonstrates us that financial exclusion is persistent problems whenever universal service demands are absent . this dynamic can be viewed amid a trend toward bank consolidation and a branch that has accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in low-income communities .
in april 2016 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american people ’s congress that direct talks between israel and palestine had stalled poland , when israel announced 700 new units of housing for israelis in the west bank . that has not been lost on all us leaders , including the us . it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel as steered by great israeli settlements in territories that they had been working to incorporate in an independent state . after all , israeli governments not only allowed the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major barrier ” to a two-state solution . after all , israeli officials not only allowed the supposedly unapproved outposts to exist , but also provided them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection .
new haven : throughout europe and america , men in black tie and women in kenzo and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , the glyndebourne , and the glimmerglass . once again , state coffers are tapped to support these underprivileged retreats . does its grandeur mean that the state should subsidize it ? perhaps , then , it is also time to ask once again a fundamental question : should the state continue to ladle out of generous subsidies to such an elite activity ? consider a thing of the indisputable beauty and spiritual depth : the roman catholic high mass .
thus , a key feature of foreign policy integration is that governments can not know in advance what they are leaving behind . in defense and warfare , unpredictability incorporates the possibility of young men dying in action . thus , a key feature of foreign policy integration is that governments can not know in advance what they are letting in exchange for it . but foreign policy , it is recognized , is fundamentally a manifestation of a nation state or superpower . this contrast underlines the fact that the great achievements of eu integration have occurred in that no-man ’s ’s ’s ’s own – land that lies between total national autonomy and total loss of sovereignty within a confederation .
without additional support from the international community , our vision will not be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . one thing to expect becomes clear at the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict . i am thankful at the start of donors , but now we need additional international support . we face an annual shortfall of $ 100 million . lebanon often struggle to attract funding , owing to its status as a middle-income country , but that label is misleading , because it ignores the grave structural weaknesses that predate the syrian crisis or the vast share of its resident populations comprised of syria , palestine , and iraq living in abject poverty .
what does this tell us about human nature , and our capacity to live either ethically ? part of the problem , of course , is that we make resolutions to do only things that we are not otherwise likely to do . only an anorexic us would resolve to devour ice cream at least once per week ; only a workaholic would resolve to spend more time before tv stations . this , in turn , creates a sense of failure that poses a distinct possibility . so we are using the prospect of a new year to attempt to modify behavior that may be the most difficult to make .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current predicament is that the fed has now overstated the strength of america ’s economy for 11 consecutive years . if every year of the fed ’s forecasting experience were the coin toss , the us would now have eleven heads in a row and the zero bound . the fed clearly needs to take a deep look at its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes . elementary mathematics dictates that credible projections should be made at least overestimate half the time and undershooting half the time . the odds of this happening are one in 2,048 .
how high the percentage should be before claiming over-diagnosis is a substantial problem and value judgment . but we think that over-diagnosis rates above 50 % cross a clinical significance threshold . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously gave a medical diagnosis do not seem to have this in re-interview , but rather how many . such is the nature of the imperfect trustworthiness of psychiatric diagnoses . any study that seeks to determine whether psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will find that some patients with the state do not have it upon re-interview .
indeed , in the great depression of the 1930s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as hoped-for a panacea . this time , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and a banking crisis has been global . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash out the search for solutions , with some losing faith in the economic system itself . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash out for seeking solutions , with some losing faith in the economic system itself . policymakers will continue to dump whatever ammunition they may find at the trouble , but it will take time for deleveraging from a boom to run its course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s extensive travels in europe this year have not attracted as much attention as they should have done , given his key theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . and yet , one wonders how the “ america first ” ideologue of the first time may be able to pursue his own political project anywhere other than in america . as more countries transform themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become the ideological common denominator . bannon , for his part , now wants to build a confederation of nationalist parties in europe . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen , herself an open rebuke to russian president vladimir putin ’s regime , bannon seems to have in mind a new type of “ neo-nationalist international . ”
macartney refused to conform to china ’s imperial protocol by declining to kowtow to his emperor because he was not obligated to do the same to his own sovereign state . as a result , the mission broke down . one well-known incident of the late eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the china imperial court . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was the idea that sprang directly from another incident , almost a century earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london . this , too , was overwhelmingly a case for “ holding face ” : china ’s anticipated tribute ; the british warsaw pact insisted on its king ’s equal status .
during those five years , the investor earns an additional 2 % annually , for a cumulative gain of 10 % . assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged over the next five years , and then rises from 2 % to 5 % . but when the interest rate on the ten-year bonds rises to about 5 % , the bond ’s price falls from $ 100 to $ 69 . here is how arithmetic works for an investor who rolls above the ten-year bonds over the next five years , thus earning 2 % more every year than it otherwise would by investing in us treasury bills or bank deposits . if not , the loss in bond prices would more than wipe out the extra interest that it has earned , even though rates remain unchanged for five years .
change must start with the transportation sector , accounting for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to rise to the point of the future . as a result , the g-8 countries should agree to no longer license any new , gaspowered cars from 2025 onwards . that decision would be directed not so much against individual mobility , but against the dissipation of a scarce resource that is more urgently needed to produce synthetic materials . so the g-8 countries should agree to no longer license any new , us-powered vehicle from 2025 onwards . change must start with the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to rise in the future .
on the contrary , over the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets to the contrary : to prevent the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the dollar . such statements are as dangerous as they are unmoored of reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusing of chinese currency manipulation is not backed by facts . such statements are as dangerous as they are unmoored of reality . ithaca , america ’s president-elect donald trump has once again managed to turn facts on his head .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and national capital were held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians discovered themselves confronting several painful truths about their country . the leader who spurred such protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent of the few “ godmen , ” ” ” ” ” ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders that flourish across india . and he has a reputation for sexually exploiting his female followers . in 2002 , two of these followers mustered brazil ’s courage to press for charges . the leader who spurred such protests is gurmeet with singh , one of the more prominent of the few “ godmen , ” ” ” ” ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders that flourish across india .
but a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would result in more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran . by contrast , some american policymakers remain convinced that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union had imposed unilateral sanctions . to be sure , certain us imports would become more expensive to iran , but the economic effects of such sanctions would remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad surely would not miss his chance of using unilateral measures for propaganda purposes – arguing that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological progress . for these reasons , europeans favor a new security council resolution , even though its actions are weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally .
and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility toward liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . no one could identify more with the political elite than abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister and the later prime minister , as well as the son of a foreign minister . abe and his allies are seeking to quash that influence . his efforts to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in his wartime record , and discredit the elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , won him the praise of donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , whom trump calls a “ “ trump ” before trump . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that consciously sought to distance japan from its wartime nationalism .
as one former mining executive in the region told me , “ the goal has always been simple : get assets out of the ground and out of the country as cheaply and with as little fuss about it . ” african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst flanks of multinational corporations : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where their resources lie , rather than where they are agreeable to them to work . ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public image . but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relations with global corporations need not be as constrained as a result . because the customer is abroad , and there is little processing to go around in country , why should companies upgrade local skill sets or otherwise help the host economy ?
the first large city to boom was london , starting around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york city and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have boomed pretty much for a while ; prices in most are up to at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now , growth in home prices is faltering in some of these cities . this has been a big windfall to homeowners , but it has hurt anyone planning to buy .
after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are increasingly recognizing how to safeguard their own economic and social interests through the rule of law . control also relies on internet users ’ demography , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite , and are more likely to adopt the internet as part of newfound consumer lifestyles than as instruments for political or social revolutions suggest . what is surprising is that the government ’s surveillance mechanisms have been largely effective . the government employs a host of new legal codes , shadowy online police force , and powerful hardware-based national information filtering . but it is also spurring profound social changes that are rooted in rising social consciousness within society , something strengthened -- and amplified -- not only by economic growth , but by rapid internet proliferation .
individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . as a result , nationally elected representatives have a responsibility to make crucial eu-level decisions . no single political party , or politician in brussels , can claim to represent europeans linked interests , because none has to compete for europe-wide public support . but , while a common europe ’s causes arise daily , they do not have europe-wide political representation . this european polity lacks a second-critical component of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level .
obama originally had a marvel team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . while a president ’s advisers may change course , one would think that the candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically , what is selling them is their ability to judge and manage expertise , rather than their own ability to do so as economists . is there anything more , indeed , that one can ask of a president ? and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect discussion of advisers or intellectual influences . is there anything more , indeed , that one can ask of a president ?
after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the us is preventing eu members from clearly and distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive hinterferences on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help cement a commitment by arab states to the us-led coalition against terrorism as well as to provide useful tumbles to american diplomacy . in short , they will need to make their own efforts to sustain collective efforts . what this distinct contribution could be no more difficult to define . they can not simply wait for america to drift , or they can always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . for the next , they will need to make their own , distinct contributions .
earlier this year , i took part in a rare disease day program in california . the topic was an obscure but large collection ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a specific form of genetic error – one that takes hold in cell machinery that chemically attaches sugars sugars to proteins and lipids . as a result , medical professionals often know little about the symptoms and biology of such diseases . one reason for this is that the small number of patients making studying illnesses and testing drugs difficult to do . one reason for this is that small numbers of patients make studying illnesses and testing drugs harder .
one might think that this simply demands a strong state , with its means to root out corrupt politicians and business leaders . in ukraine , even universities are being undermined : degrees , they are routinely bought and sold . while corruption is more a symptom than a cause for ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s mushrooming problems , the culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . in time , this “ corruption culture ” will permeate society . markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians are selling themselves to the highest bidder .
on the contrary , settlements offer cheaper housing than they are available in israel , thus making a solution to one of the country ’s major economic troubles for the middle class . likewise , nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion . the new government ’s ’s ’s fragile equilibrium merely reinforces this sober interpretation . in israel , the new government will only reinforces this sober interpretation . in israel , obama will come to terms with a country that has indeed shifted , but not toward a missing center .
at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s real-estate bubble burst , causing economic stagnation . despite japan ’s weakness in its fiscal position , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , to say the least . at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s real-estate bubble burst , triggering economic stagnation . japan had a similar experience in the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” if the government continues along this path , many expect ’s budget deficits to widen further .
madrid – in late august , the heads of state of state from the south african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , the leading regional powers , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges ahead . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . among the 54 paragraphs of the summit ’s last communiqué , two are trafficked in zimbabwe . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections , which enabled mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and slaughtering supporters of the opposition movement to democratic change ; transforming a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa ’s breadbasket in an area where half the population had barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , as exemplified by its attacks on daily news , suppression of critical voices . mugabe ’s regime committed outrage following outrage .
a 2014 pew study found that , whereas only 25 % of respondents had been satisfied with the direction of national policymaking , 60 % were satisfied with governance within their own communities . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as well as state colleges and universities . and america ’s constitution allows individual states to function as what judge brandeis described as laboratories of democracy by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk . there is a long and affluent history of successful experimentation . california , wyoming , and other states enabled women to vote – an example that encouraged passage of the nineteenth amendment ( enfranchising all adult women ) .
the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is attributable to a substantial decline in commodity prices and a painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries . in other words , price stability is being rejigved within the euro area . only greece currently has a slightly negative rate of inflation . europe needs to aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth , and creating competitive jobs . should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth offset debt-driven growth ?
the implication is that speculators can drive prices up and increase their inventory holdings , even as overall commercial inventories remain little change . thus , record-high speculative prices have probably caused bunker traders to release inventory , but those releases may have been bought by speculators , who are now active lessees about commercial storage capacity . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always hard , because it tends to occur against the backdrop of powerful fundamentals . additionally , oil-price speculation may have provoked “ echo speculation , ” ” whereby ultimate users purchase refined products in advance to guard against future oil-price hikes . they then take over their premises to ensure that overall refined inventories rise , but that increases are not part of announced commercial inventories .
furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab world ’s borders ( syria and iraq ) and the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) . but both states lack the domestic revenues needed to sustain their own institutions . the arab spring has been overthrown by some regimes , albeit not by others . if they wish to survive well in the coming century , they will most likely have to be subsumed under a union backed by a greater , more influential , and more established nation-state . such a state , whether exiting de facto or widespread formal recognition will have an ever-lasting impact on the arab world ’s boundaries ( syria and iraq ) and the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) .
in fact , new risk-management products are being developed for some of the poorest people in africa , asia , and latin america . we tend to think that new risk-management products , such as novel types of insurance or financial derivatives , will primarily interest the rich , or at least relatively affluent people . so risk management , by smoothing bumps in income , can be exceptionally important in easing the impact of poverty . it is important to recognize that the world of ’s poorest people is not the same people between year and year . a good fortunes and a bad fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest are especially vulnerable when adversity – like a hurricane in a fishery village – strikes .
that disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and serfs , the politburo commissars , and the proletariat . in novgorod , i have seen lukoil ( one of russia ’s large private oil companies ) petrol stations . nowadays , everybody is interested in life and hardship individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life unified . in novgorod , i have seen lukoil ( one of russia ’s big private oil companies ) gas stations go so far as to their day . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , has sometimes declared allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( russia ’s citizens ) deprived – or liberated – that ’s ’s a matter of opinion – russians of every collective life ; both the actual life of shared hardship and the imaginary semi-life of communist solidarity .
a new system in which “ reversible bonds ” have replaced quotas and desirability screenings would reduce such competition , while mitigating destination and source countries ’ risks . greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s ’s ’s economic benefits . but , despite the potential benefits of collaborative efforts to control illegal immigration , most countries – including the us and the eu – are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for both parties , shielding destination countries from the expense of fiscally motivated immigration and protecting the source countries from the costs associated with losing their talented workers . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural competition between destination and source countries for the most productive workers .
real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in most of the north atlantic region than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the us economy shrank by an estimated 23 % . every downturn eventually comes to an end , with no end in sight . denmark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was needed , with long-run consequences . denmark of the austerity policies that many governments have embraced is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was needed , with long-run consequences . germany , europe ’s top-performing country , has recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the past six years .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the selection of their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as a pope . here , a prominent writer said , “ poland ’s second baptism . ” but , even in our euphoria , we were not expecting how much a new pope would make a difference not only for poland , but for the world as a whole . his initial return visit to his native poland soon gave way to all of the world the new pope ’s powers . some were frightened , others wept with joy .
to most hong kong ’s lawyers , displays of political authority have not represented simply reinterpretation of old rules , but a move toward making new ones . yau and leung have been barred from taking on their legislative council seats . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s party ( nbs ) standing committee has stepped in to “ clarify ” ” article 104 of a fundamental law , declared that all oths of office-holders must be solemn , accurate , and sincere . though hong kong ’s courts have surely been able to settle the issue on their own – under the “ one country , two systems ” framework – hong kong is reassured by an independent judiciary system , in addition to its right to elect its own legislature , an enraged china has intervened . restraint , after all , is by no means a leninist virtue .
reebok , a multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as “ founded on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . but human-rights sensitivity has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s worldwide decline . the international labor organization reports that trade unions are in retreat from the majority of nations . company markets its soccer balls and other goods with a “ guaranteed : manufactured without child labor ” label . prodded by groups like the workers rights consortium and the ethical trade initiative , some corporations are promising to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even to give employees a voice to the workplace .
that is , as it should be , to be sure , as it should be . the 12 member countries of the african union ’s great lakes region have committed to similar compulsory due-diligence requirements . the us securities and exchange commission calls for companies using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate those pristine power , and mitigate risks in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance if they are found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . in fact , the united states has already undertaken the next logical step . the 12 member countries of the african community ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar compulsory due-diligence requirements .
illiberal cee nationalists such as hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to assert that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . they conclude that they can have it both ways , retain the advantages of economic integration , without losing their capacity to infringe on their citizens ’ rights , or usher in eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships , and reinforce their hold over the state . the truth , however , is that cee countries have little to lose when it comes to sovereignty . the majority of their productive and financial assets are held by foreign companies , just as most of the rules that govern their economies have been determined by the eu . cameron ’s initiative plays right to their hands , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and the strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy .
one worry among critics is that a shift to a green economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to profit-seeking behavior by bankers and traders , whose flaws have helped trigger financial and economic turmoil over the last four years . that is why connectivity in governance and institutions at rio +20 is just as important as that of moving toward a green economy : markets are human enterprise , which requires rules and institutions to guide not only its direction , but also its borders . indeed , deep and pervasive market failures – in carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental risks and ecological scarcities , undermining human well-being and social equity . as a recently released report “ toward a green economy : pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication ” shows , a market economy as currently constituted has resulted in misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . the systemic crises in food , fuel , and funding that came to the forefront in 2008 – and that is ongoing in many countries – have their roots in the economic paradigm that did not accounted for natural-resource values and its array of life-supporting services .
coincidentally , a deadly assault on gaza has come at the same time that a clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle eastern peacemakers and its collective punishment for the palestinians . by this norm , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me an islamophobe ? coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza has come at the same time that a clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle eastern peacemakers have published books on how the task should be handled properly . an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately was accused of using the language of holocaust denial . by this norm , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me an islamophobe ?
a similar political imperative lies at the heart of sinhalese chauvinism , which has made a precipitous return to public life in sri lanka . but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa has continued to play on ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by sri lanka ’s ruling democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election – an outcome that he then sought to annul – was supposed to end both his career and that of race-baiting politics . the sinhalese ’s religious and ethnic passions were emboldened during the eventual bloody push that culminated in sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but the former president is now mounting an angry comeback bid , and may well win a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
in at least 30 countries , there is a concerted pattern of strikes by armed groups with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria . these are not isolated examples from children caught up in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms become truly targets for terrorists who see education as a threat . schools worldwide , from north america to northern nigeria , now need security plans aimed at ensuring their school ’s safety and providing trust to parents and their communities . such attacks expose them to stark clarity that provides education is not only about blackboards , books , and curricula . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean that “ fake ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” )
meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to recruiting refugees . modest seed financing can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses gain off the ground . more scholarship opportunities for refugees , and more funding for schools within and outside of refugee settlements would also be welcomed as well . some , such as tent , encourage companies to hire refugees and integrate into supply chains where they live . global organizations are tapping into tech-savvy refugees ’ networks and hiring them for online work .
the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another , as well as safeguarding local ecosystems . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to protect food supplies , much as the rights of farmers worldwide . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will gather in sharm el sheikh , egypt , for the 14th meeting of the united nations conference to the united nations convention on biological diversity ( the un ’s biodiversity conference ) . while there will be whether to press the brakes on gene drives , ensuring that peasant and indigenous peoples consult fully before such technologies are unleashed in their communities . that is why it is increasingly being dismissed in favor of the agro-ecological model , based on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ”
the mise-en-scene emotional manipulation that surrounds chávez ’s death appears certain to translate into electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro . buying time to secure his own political future , venezuelan officials have carefully stage-managed chávez and eventual death , even suggesting near the end , whereas he has been through elaborate and agonizing cancer treatments that he is still “ “ walking ” and exercising . it is not precisely clear how long venezuela ’s hugo chávez was actually dead even before his passing was officially announced . but will that suffice to create a chávista lineage ? the information vacuum has been reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding stalin and mao ’s deaths , and practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death secret for weeks until succession has been settled .
too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than pushing innovations in socially beneficial directions , to augment rather than replacing less-skilled workers . such policies are unlikely to make much of a difference for the developing world . the demanding quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not easily be met by the replacement of machines with manual labor . governments in developed countries also have a role to play in affecting the nature of technological innovation . for them , the principal barrier will remain that existing technologies allow insufficient room for factor substitution : employing less-skilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , america ’s president-elect donald trump will take office having received nearly three million fewer votes than his challenger ; and he will work with the republican senate majority , whose members have won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents combined . only the republican majority in the house of representatives , headed by speaker paul ryan , has any claim to represent a numerical majority for the 55 % of americans who voted for the day 2016 election . at the same time , trump will launch his presidency with approval ratings below 50 % . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his seminal tweets put it ( before trump aside ) – in the history of such ratings . the us government of the world ’s oldest democracy is actually not democratic .
more broadly , turkey and the west are undergoing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing perceptions and alliances in syria ’s conflict . the s-400 disputes are only the latest example of how military procurement matters has created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey , its western partners have not done enough , through technology-transfer operations and joint-production schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . and domestic deftness , unlike that of the us , has been only a feature of the story . on the contrary , both the chinese and the west are more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter ’s military procurements .
this is not to say that our answers to the dangers that emerge from the legacies of the past must be rooted in the past . underdevelopment in many southern countries that are faring poorly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world creates conditions for desperate levels of poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond the control of atrophying state systems . underdevelopment in many southern countries that are faring poorly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world creates conditions for desperate poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless war , unemployed populations beyond atrophying to atrophying state systems . as we embark on the still-new millennium , albeit , it seems ironically obvious that tomorrow ’s possible disorder might be due , in no small part , to yesterday ’s colonial rule . more needs are at stake than ever before for innovative , forward-looking approaches to global governance .
in the bilateral negations with moscow , us officials have offered four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · united states joint american expert studies on how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent and what steps can be taken to minimize potential problems ;
his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) and curtail growth in medicaid spending have been unsuccessful . under such conditions , trump ’s ’s ’s ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals are likely to run into budget constraints . though the tax package that trump signed into law last december ’s front-loaded tax cuts and is now helping the economy to mature , government revenues have so far responded to a large response to this growth slowdown . under such conditions , he has already ruled out any change to social security . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) and to curtail growth in medicaid spending have been unsuccessful .
the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite a daunting demographic reality , not to mention the need to preserve the identity of the jewish state . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid will not stop the eu from delivering a divided vote , reverberations that will rage not only echo throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but also impeding europe ’s efforts to reset relationships with countries throughout the middle east and north africa . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivering a unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . indeed , europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s divided stance on the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record on achieving foreign-policy consensus . granting the observer-state status to palestine would remove the table prospects for a “ single-state ” solution , one that has recently gained momentum among experts .
moreover , in countries where google is widely criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights the absence of information when something is blocked – letting people know that it exists , but that they can not have access to it . rather than calling for an end to censorship now – an impossible dream – google is working to make this happen by stoking government control over information . with google , people are starting to expect answers about anything . on the contrary , every time someone in china ’s googles something and gets an answer – both good and bad – details about someone ’s government does not like it needs to wonder , “ why ca n’t i get this type of information about everything ? ” a bit of transparency will inevitably lead to more of it .
r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them do so ; and that , if the state is “ manifestly failed ” to protect its people , the wider international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely and determined action ” as long as it was agreed to by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain eager to argue that the entire enterprise of r2p , particularly its punishments of military action in exceptional circumstances , are only “ old neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle . ” while no outcome has been formally agreed or made publicly , a few themes have emerged from the beijing meeting . taken together , they offer grounds for confidence that it may be possible to recreate an international consensus , so long lacking in syria , about how to deal with the hardest massachusetts atrocity cases . first , there has been widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the un general assembly in 2005 , remains to remain .
by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle the benefits of globalization . such benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent efforts to correct and contain the system ’s shortcomings . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need a better understanding of these better if we want the system to survive . global integration has brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor that is so obviously demonstrated by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits like economies of scale and rapid diffusion of innovations from one country to another that are less easy to demonstrate through static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic rewards , such as freedom of choice involving transnational movements of goods , capital , and people ; and freedom of thought linked to international thinking . so the global economy should truly be thought of as the global capitalist system .
( nixon was an unindicted co-co-conspirator in watergate burglary , whereas trump is one in new york involving his participation in pre-election payoffs to silence two women with whom he held sexual liaisons shortly after his birth of his son , barron . ) mueller explained that a controversial us department policy of justice intended to help president richard nixon , bars impeachment of a sitting president . making matters worse for trump , a widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the us congress commit to fulfilling the impeachment process . worse for trump , a widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the us congress commit to fulfilling the impeachment process . this has neither the us constitution nor the rule of law .
another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan . likewise , russia has been enforcing a comprehensive georgian trade embargo , hoping to weaken resolve its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily in order to prevent his country from unraveling . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only raise the risks of open warfare with russia , but strain of relations with armenia , as close to 50,000 armenians in abkhazia support of breakaway governments . another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
in the short run , may ’s new government seems unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in its current form . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister accountable to italy , and a eurozone parliament ( made up of members of the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold a finance minister accountable . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister accountable to italy , and a eurozone parliament ( made up of members of the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold the country ’s finance minister accountable . now that merkel ’s new administration is up to the task , the us will see how far germany is willing to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , may ’s new government appears unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in its current form .
furthermore , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . likewise , the financial crisis has prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs , as well as other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’s overall assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . as well , ndbs ’ total assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . today , they are an important feature of most developed and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably in china , germany , india , and south korea .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially address one large problem – the rundown of britain ’s ’s ’s ’s diplomatic service , by creating a much bigger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
as many commentators have pointed out , from the islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks conspicuously like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american support ) of an elected islamist government ; turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” following hamas won in gaza in 2006 . so , what should the us and other governments supporting liberal democracy do now ? the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . more broadly , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever its causes , weakens the processes , institutions , and checks on the state powers that make liberal democracy work . if choices for islamists continue to be bullets or ballots , bullets may now look more promising .
consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and spy for muslims . yet the world continues to understate the capabilities and donations of frontline health workers worldwide . as a result , the prevalence of malaria incidence has fallen by more than 75 % in the us , from 2000 to 2015 . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and spy for muslims . this not only undermines their ability to do their jobs effectively ; it also puts them at considerable risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them .
as soon as the would-be “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union became vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . the west ’s ’s ’s ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : to bring the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . at first , nato ’s new members were declared to have met with both democratic and military criteria . later , these criteria were abandoned when nato began to invite even the most backward and corrupt states to join . moreover , nato not only enlarged its membership , but also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
perhaps that proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right according to its nose at . if so , then , it is a failure that raises two key questions . normally , the fund expects problems to emerge from the usual suspects , economically volatile developing countries , but this time the crisis unfolded over a few kilometers away from its headquarters . ironically , this has been at the forefront of the imf ’s emphasis on its supervisory role . ironically , it has been at the forefront of the imf ’s emphasis on its supervisory role .
indeed , the same relationship between france and the un that led to the country ’s resistance to interventions in iraq in 2003 has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . it is this particular “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un , which is indispensable to understanding the french position on libya . but if nato is – for better or for worse – in command on the ground in libya , it is the un that has given the necessary green light to french action there . it is a shift that raises a major question : if those who are willing to act demonstrate incapable of doing so “ successfully , ” ” ” ” ” what happens to global stability unless those who are competent are also willing to tread ? at a crossroads of this question stands nato , an organization perceived as america ’s by europeans and international ( i.e. , not american ) by the average american citizen .
of course , there is no way to enforce full disclosure ; but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset norms . and if an official meets mostly with their lobbyists , at the expense of other types of meetings , voters may well make judgments about this as well . voters may be able to turn their own judgments on the basis of their own . but if that hour really was a lunch with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) would have to lie intentionally in order to conceal it . if an official meets with a lobbyist and is not embarrassed by it , he could simply say so .
big tech firms might argue that all the capital they pour in new products and services is putting pressure on innovation . so , in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are just as likely to be buried as nourished . and there is every risk that tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop an almost identical product , as well as their vast regulatory resources to defend it . one suspects , though , that in many circumstances the intent of the bud is to nip potential competition . it is notable that big tech continues to channel most of its revenues away from its companies ’ core products , such as apple ’s iphone , microsoft office , and google search engines .
in rajaratnam ’s case , the option of establishing such connections has come through telephone surveillance . historically , both state and federal attorney general generals have preferred prosecution of “ occasional ” traders , who stick out like sore thumb . in rajaratnam ’s case , the option of establishing such connections has come through telephone surveillance . in other words , precisely because occasional traders trade rarely , it is far easier to demonstrate the nexus of causality between their transactions and the illegal ttip . for example , when a diminutive italian bank received from someone who never traded a big order for shares in the american shoe shortly before the firm acquired the italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was n’t hard to lament a fish .
roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent cuts in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls remain more than twice that of boys to carry the virus . yet barely a third of young africans know how to prevent hiv treatment – another reason for urgent , comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . sexual violence is being used as a war tactic . african girls are also disproportionately vulnerable to contract hiv , let alone hiv programs .
new york – many historians and economists are insisting that we live in an age shaped by vast , impersonal forces . that may well be true in russia , and it might soon turn out to be true in turkey as well . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices may change the course of history . that may well be true in russia , and it may soon turn out to be true in turkey as well . the actions and decisions made by one person or woman , regardless of how powerful , can not determine nations ’ destiny .
figueres has suggested that the paris agreement would slash almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c. though her wording has been crafted to avoid actually saying this , it has been predictably about what most people have been heard . this may seem surprising : we are constantly hearing how each country has made important commitments to reduce co2 emissions – the so-called “ intended nationally determined contributions ” ( indcs ) , ” or the indcs . as i show in a new peer-review paper , even if successful , an agreement reached in paris would halve temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 ° celsius . a sea-level rise would reduce by just $ 1.3 trillion . according to the un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , the “ indcs ” have the capability to limit the forecast temperature rises to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 , by no means sufficient but far below the estimated four , five , or more , degrees of warming projected by many earlier .
meanwhile , the eu will most likely not pursue either substantial policy or institutional reform in the near term , for fear that doing so might adversely affect consequential elections later this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy . an alternative view , of course , holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties , will serve as a wake-up call , and spur europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . anti-euro political forces are obviously making electoral inroads ; they will continue to gain ground as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for gaining its own house in order , while also emphasizing eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the current system imposes too many constraints and includes too few effective adjustment mechanisms .
and , on september 9 , while the local government elections occurred , tens of thousands of russians had joined the protests organized by the anti-corruption drive and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . russians realized that they had no need to win at all costs ; they may be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so say-so status . yet , like september 3 , 53 % of the population claimed that they were ready to protest even more . russians realized that they had no need to win at all costs ; they could be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-say-so program . the pension reform was then announced , spurring a surge in protests that drove putin to vow to soften the measure , while appealing to russia ’s understanding .
the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 , under external pressures and internal calls for change . by the time europe and china crossed paths in the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had tremendous military advantages , and so forced china into a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . change , however , did not come at a smooth rate . china has squandered its economic and technological potential on its own , not because of its external strength . china ’s imperial state and society has been destabilized by european incursions .
true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare event . but they tend to be ingenious at the evolution of glamorous new fields from little towns within a single hour ’s commutes from major cities . where land today is cheap , it will have great value in the future , if only someone takes the dramatic step of planning and the creation of a whole city there . private developers have difficulty getting a major plot free of restraints . these cities ’ obvious success , because both government and economic centers , attests to the fact that urban land derives value from a well-planned city .
so far , venezuela ’s elite , and much of its investment community , have assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no possibilities , just badmouthing . there is no imminent crisis of this sort ; instead , chavez must choose venezuela ’s future . if he opens the economy and adjusts to the exchange rate , a path to growth and stability would be achieved . if he continues to statist/populist , 2001 , he will be a crisis year from now . it may last for awhile , but chavez will have to choose venezuela ’s future .
the average “ current ” budget surplus since the beginning of this cycle is 0.8 percentage points of gdp . the growth rate is forecast to return above trend levels by 2005-06 , bringing the current cycle back to an end . the average surplus on the three years since 1999 has far exceeded its official deficits forecast in the coming two years . that means that the us treasury expects the average surplus from 1992000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , permitting brown ’s strictures . but independent forecasters are more pessimistic about the future .
but , as georgia ’s price demonstrated long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least toward people we perceive as members of the group that we call upon us . the new revolution in economics may find a place for strategy based on affecting ideals and identity , rather than just taxes and subsidies . instead , strategies came from the view that all our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenge of designing “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or treaties , an effort that has also been recognized with nobel prizes . if successful , a new revolution may guide strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels . the eu ’s strategies came from the view that all our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to project “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or treaties , an effort that has also been recognized with nobel prizes .
of course , nato can not safeguard democracy on its own , and it is no panacea for the us ’s many social and political ills ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as encouragement of governments and parties to behave responsibly and with respect to adherence to the rule of law . nato fixes the autonomy of local political elites to do as they wish . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato command ( that is , american ) control , any attempt to staging a coup , or stirring up trouble between the romanian minority , can be avoided . such openly thuggish rulers like ukraine ’s kuchma , or lukashenka of belarus , are almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . the more tightly tied to a democratic world a country like romania is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political strife , or eviscerate its democratic system .
the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor the mounting evidence of deteriorating regime performance in china has convinced even some of the most knowledgeable observers that ending ccp rule is now a distinct possibility . this is the underlying dynamic driving force of corruption in china today . an obvious explanation is the power of conventional thinking , which is at stake here . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically viewed as invulnerable , even just before they collapse . indeed , the effects of leadership degeneration are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tension , and a loss of government credibility .
on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the flush toilet adjoining his room , with the eu using a chamber pot that he had brought from china . perhaps he suspected that stalin , as the bbc alleged in the past year , had been collecting and analyzing his feces to glean information on great helmsman ’s temperament . when it comes to diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would have called a “ form . ” some readers might say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , who is falsely said , gaveled his shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in 1960 , should steer clear about the subject of world leaders ’ manners . but there is a point to be made about recent behavior .
that is why the so-called “ “ system liberals , ” ” ” or loyalists who stand for kremlin-backed change want to control the protest movement , using it as a lever in the ultimate fight against “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s ’s ’s ’s military and security apparatus ) . system liberals believe that russia has , on the whole , built an acceptable market economy . indeed , the potential heir today needs legitimacy not only from the powerful oligarchs , but also from the streets . its subsequent evolution demands only the removal of some of putin ’s kgb cronies through controlled political reform . until recently , loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes criticism from a government that is supposed to influence somehow through constructive overtures .
similarly , my office has defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) prodded by moscow ’s municipal government on the guise of commercial disputes about leases . that fight does not stop there , but , after my interventions , moscow ’s authorities must heed the public ’s negative attitude toward their effort to quash that publication . my office has worked closely with the state to assure that , in most cases , juries are used . of course , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human rights problems , such as the low grade of war in chechnya or the yukos affair . my office pays maximum attention to chechnya , even though this is no easy feat from moscow .
new delhi – international discussion of china ’s rise has focused on its rising trade muscle , rising maritime ambitions , and expanding its capacity to project military power . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on a continent by controlling the headwaters of multiple international rivers and manipulating its cross-border flows . asia ’s water map has fundamentally changed following its 1949 communist victory in china . china , the world ’s largest dam builder – with only slightly more than half of the planet ’s roughly 50,000 large dams – is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive transnational rivers . one critical issue , however , typically escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern history .
in the us , holding elections on workdays rather than weekends or holiday issues , combined with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules , places ordinary workers at considerable disadvantage . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , at a minimum , higher capital requirements , and tighter regulatory scrutiny . they entail continued exposure to economic stability , without providing compensating for increased investment in productive activities . the fact that financial institutions have escaped relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes about their political power . as the failure of financial regulation suggests , important as economic reforms are , they need to complemented with measures that correct the asymmetry in political approaches .
the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in the areas that israel has occupied in 1967 . for israel , an occupying power , whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of times that of the people it rejects the basic rights of freedom and autonomy , photo opportunities provided by meetings and greeting palestinian leaders to replace the peace process . negotiators have parsed every conceivable solution to the permanent-state issues of jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic ties . the leaders of the world ’s superpowers , the united states ’ officials , the elders , and the tens of people of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring about peace . a serious look backward to the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands on the white house lawn .
in personal relations , denial tends to mask imbalances – but only for so long . this has resulted in the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china , or the us ? in other words , the export miracle has been sparked not by state-sponsored chinese firms but by the offshore efficiency of the west . ultimately , deniers and imbalances are giving rise to frictions and blame – holding a codependent partner responsible for one ’s own problems – of one ’s own making . such is the case for america and china in the region .
as lamy put it , almost 80 % of curry favor is ready ; we need only additional spices from major players – india , the european union , the us , brazil , and china . these can be rendered in a politically palatable way , which also means that the doha conclusion is within us rather than beyond our grasp . if doha fails , some say , life will go on . that is , of course , true of course , but that does not make that view any less naïve . but why bother making a continuation of the effort ?
the eu has also suddenly awakened to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . after all , none of the eu ’s strategic partnership is unconditional in the eu . given that 20 % of russia ’s gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its government has become a top priority . but the eu-belarus relations thaw need to be based on reciprocal , enduring steps . in turn , lukashenko has chosen for economic reasons that his country needs the eu ’s support and can no longer depend exclusively on russia without paying a heavy political price .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic decline in its natural capital . the planet ’s most endangered ecosystems reside in developing countries , making it dependent on some of the world ’s neediest communities to preserve them . but , in the developing world , immediate economic needs often over-ride on long-term imperatives , and protect a fragile environment rarely makes headlines at the national level a top priority . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer from the degradation of their natural environment . plant and animal species worldwide are vanishingly small at an unprecedented rate of 100 to 1,000 times the rate of natural extinction .
africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy portfolio , including almost nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . at the same time , renewable-energy sources are becoming less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel-based alternatives . and south africa ’s renewable-energy producer procurement program has seen a total decline in bid prices and overhauling ption rates . this is more than enough to satisfy the continent ’s future demand . for example , the utility-scale renewable-energy price in africa has fallen to 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continues to decline today .
in the united kingdom , the brexit vote has been fueled in part by false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe has been driving down wages . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote has been fueled partly by spurious and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe has been driving down wages . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – are doing just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other eu countries by issuing skills-matching visas . and yet , despite continued coverage of the issue – or , more broadly , precisely because of it – the eu ’s migrant policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote has been fueled partly by false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe drove wages .
that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; instead , we need to recognize its limitations . the problem with gdp is not that it is a poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional questions ) , but that it is incomplete . most medical professionals will soon have digital assistants offering diagnoses ( especially for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , performing noninvasive surgeries , or searching for pertinent published research . looking ahead , the same kind of cost-efficient dynamics promise big increases in many areas of well-being . it does not cover the rise in the scope of goods and services that are delivered at negative incrementally , or the nonmaterial side of individual well-being or social progress more generally .
whereas september hological studies in the united states demonstrated that the poor do not vote on substantial numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s ’s two candidacies ) , the reverse is true in india . important shifts in india ’s social composition , both its politicians and their bureaucrats , since independence , are indeed proof of democracy at work . but many lament that the country ’s poor performance in general offers fewer causes for celebration . studies of india ’s elections consistently showed that the poorest vote in numbers well above the national average , whereas the educated middle-class reverse in numbers well below it . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line up in the hot sun , believing that their votes would make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers would do little to influence the outcome , have stayed at home .
it is undeniably a big “ show ” with all of the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a startling conspiracy twist : the rise of the “ third man , ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must now be taken seriously . first and most important , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy of two notable spokespersons for his candidacy . should the us be watching the french presidential campaign with add-on admiration or alarm ? or , perhaps , a little both ?
according to press reports , trump has presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very sheltered ) market to american agricultural exports , or face increased american tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . here , japan is once again acting “ voluntarily ” under severe american pressure . but that may be shifting in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade agreements with the united states that might challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading scheme : the “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges granted to one country in a trade deal must be extended to all wto members . gaining access to japan ’s ’s agricultural market would seem to render trump ’s “ national security ” concern over imported toyotas and hondas – a justification that enables him to circumvent wto regulations with his tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his trade union connections , as well as his working-class rapport , to achieve a social pact designed to achieve sustained improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing his potential to become a latin american economic powerhouse . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its rapidly rising labor force calls for a high rate of job creation . emulating the dutch experience with job-creating provides the surest route to alleviating poverty in brazil . the idea is not that brazil should look to realize the dutch society-wide model .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” two times more twitter followers than a national assault association almost overnight . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users have signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulation and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . hence , the civil-rights marchers in the us during the 1950 ’s and 1960s frequently evoked the “ significance of our numbers . ” nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills functions for democracy that online activism , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . by following the eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulation and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby .
so , when it comes to explanations for the dollar ’s ’s decline over the last year or so , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than at forecasting future trends . there has been no across-the-board import tariff , either . a favorite explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , via incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . nor have there been any across-the-board tariff on imports of the north american free trade agreement .
in one of his recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays take the form of homes . to me , this view of things explains a lot better than an orthodox account why , for all the money-pumping by central banks , commercial banks failed to start lending again , and the economic recovery petered out . in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . just as the lenders did not force money on the public prior to the crisis , so now they are unable to compel heavily indebted households to borrow or firms to seek productivity-enhancing loans when markets remain flat or shrink . of course , some worry about a collapse of the household ’s savings rate , but few were overly concerned .
the enormously successful labour governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating just two decades ago , have done just that , in essence , inventing the “ “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . but some fundamental rules of political survival seem to have been largely ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling them out might help both the alp and the rest to remember them . the first rule is to have philosophy – and to stick with it . the current alp government , on the other hand , has struggled until now to re-create anything as compelling as it is . its elements have been clear : dry , free-market economics ( but , in our case , with low-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social pay ” increases in medical care and retirement incomes ) ; compassionate social policies ; and liberal internationalist foreign policies .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants per year , the eu needs to mobilize private-sector – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to treat them as sponsors . this will require not only ample financing , but also human and capacity to match migrants and sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria should never become a crisis . this is the fifth leg of a comprehensive plan . it has been long in making , easy to foresee , and eminently manageable to europe and the international community .
furthermore , the distributional effects of a green transition are unfortunately adverse . with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for household consumption . a corollary is that wealth drop as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , gluttonous cars , and oil companies ’ share of equities declines . it would be the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment that is discarded , and additional investment in a way that has become less carbon-intensive . the issue does not come from using the price-stability facility .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . owing to the withdrawal treaty that concluded this past october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit was averted . ever since the start of the brexit negotiations , the us on the eu ’s 27 member states , together with the european parliament , have not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests , nor lost sight of the eu ’s need for unity and solidarity . our priority has been felt first and foremost by securing european citizens ’ rights , including by finding a solution to the peoples of northern ireland and greece , for whom the negotiations were about peace and stability , rather than simply trade and economics . and , in addition , matters could have been far worse , at least for now .
a century later , another american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with his apology for “ just wars . ” such was the existentialist worldview by us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a prominent advocate of america ’s expansionism : “ war is , in the long run , far better for a man ’s soul than even the most prosperous peace ” might be . the israeli-palestinian conflict remains its defining diplomatic charade for many years now . and nothing has attenuated the tension between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by overwhelming power .
other sunni gulf monarchies , as well as egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . yet , today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is the latest in saudi arabia ’s worries . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . at the same time , politics is superseding religiosity within israel . so fundamental are changes to the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being a custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , said nothing when american president donald trump has recognized jerusalem as israel ’s eternal capital .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to exploit europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront hard competition in world markets . in sum , the old continent is hot on its own . no day passes without major headlines about major european mergers ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations are spendthrift . in france , large strategic plays are playing out in banks and fashions ; italy sees its major players ’ positions on europe and the world stage . no one can say how deep the changes will go , or how fast they shift europe into a fast-moving lane .
the eu was right to react forcefully to safeguard europe ’s stability by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing a european financial stabilization mechanism . but all european governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation to restore confidence in markets both – and to their own citizens ’ own citizens . greece ’s debt crisis was a stark warning that european policymakers must not let greek public debt pile up indefinitely . recent studies indicate that once a government ’s public-debt burden reaches a threshold perceived as unsustainable , more debt will simply stunt rather than stimulate , economic growth . germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries .
it is the kind of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements , which are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or financial or intellectual elites who supposedly spire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . in the 1830s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as well as marxist marxists and freemasons , respectively , as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalties were suspicious . to prewar fascists , the american people were often viewed as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . but stalin failed to come up with this idea . not to be seen as part of native russians , jews were thought to belong to an international cabal and hence to be treacherous .
the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind an attack on america ’s consulate ? “ they should not come close to a shariah . ” salafi jihadism is not an organization , but rather an ideological trend based on a core belief that armed tactics of all types are most efficient – and in some versions – the method of bringing about social and political change . it should go beyond a constitution , instead of an article for a referendum .
in any case , israel now appears to have fallen back on the charade . the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has more than tripled since the signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel in 1993 . more recently , he says that his ultimate goal is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is limited in size and sovereignty . in london earlier this month , netanyahu refused three times to respond to questions from the press about his support for a two-state solution . their hope surely dimmed when they saw the bulldozers ’ arrival to prepare the ground for new settlements , rather than the uncommon occurrence .
the pro-europe foundation ’s design flaw was made in part by the promise of ever rising prosperity . structural shifts to economies that experienced a sharp drop in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now have to be made fast , crises , and no luxury of devaluation . the pain that this policy is producing has been exposed to protests throughout the continent , as well as to the bitter impact on many struggling families , young and older ones . at the moment , at present , the promise of the eu itself is being dealt with . the pro-europe foundation was partly the promise of ever rising prosperity .
if west germany , in the face of reunification , rolled back all of these unaffordable constraints to playing markets , the economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would enjoy more near-full employment , a drive for productivity would be far more aggressive . the problem after all , german corporatism , of course , did not permit such a solution : unions wanted their wage protection . reunification meant that everybody would not only benefit western german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously negative institutions : trade unions , overpaid unemployment , and excessive job insecurity , pervasive regulation . the only way to ensure them was for italy ’s governments to pay lots in low-wage east germany . to be sure , german corporatism failed to authorize such a solution : unions wanted their wage protection .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice premier , shaul mofaz , has offered an unequivocal veto over a key issue in the middle east peace process . this iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza , and finally from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s ’s ’s ’s borders , and thus not only politically naïve but irrational . that notion is of a hegemonic iran trying to dominate the region through a array of shiite proxies . mofaz ’s statements are symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply embedded , not only in the middle east , but in the united states as well .
in the united states , us president barack obama and congressional allies , control over the house of representatives , and ( filibuster-proof ) senate , had the power to do whatever it wanted in 2009 , and so did . the recent us midterm elections , following such sweeping changes in policy direction , occurred in 1980 , when us president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending , and regulation , with the support of the us federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . likewise , obama and his congressional allies enacted the $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill , which was loaded with programs geared toward key democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and public employees ; adopted sweeping and deeply unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality would be determined by the supreme court earlier this year ) ; imposed vast new regulation on wide swaths of the us economy ; embraced industrial policies that selects specific companies for special treatment ; engaged in special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at only levels in world war ii ; and within washington , dc , as part of washington , dc , and centralized power . stanford – successful political candidates – are trying to realign the proposals that they ran . likewise , stanford – successful political candidates – are trying to implement the proposals that they ran .
all sides agree that the stability of the international economy is predicated on a system of global rules . developing countries complain of the restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor services ) , and fear that the new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . what is called into question is the nature of these rules . they see a trading system that privileges business over labor , the environment , and consumer safety . opponents of trade liberalization decry the secret and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto and the influence of corporate interests in rule-making .
most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy , to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way . but , having campaigned for freedom from apartheid in south africa , geingob argues , namibia must defend the freedoms it won . besides , the geingob acknowledges how transparency protects it from demands for favors from corporate and other interest groups . not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable , and the government is working hard to preserve and enhance them .
gordon ’s argument ’s vulnerability is its shortened time horizons for ir # 3 . consider the following four phrases in his paper : · “ at a minimum , it took more than 150 years for ir # 1 ’s inventions to percolate through the economy . ” consider the following four phrases in his paper :
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to inflows that will inevitably drive down their exchange rates and undermine export-led growth . this may well be the correct response if inflows and upward exchange-rate pressures are driven by fundamental factors ( the current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large , and persistent growth differential ) are driving up the renminbi ’s value . but , in many cases , inflows are being fueled by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance that can drive an overvalued currency , crowding out non-traditional export industries or import-competing industries , lost competitiveness , and , ultimately , massive current-account deficits and hence tighter external constraints on growth . the first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . this problem is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s ’s ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any renminbi appreciation .
yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery . if labor-force participation rates were 66 % , as they were in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % since then , as occurred in december 2013 , the jobless rate is likely to be just above 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . moreover , the downward unemployment rate largely reflects persistently dismal labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . plunging debt service industries largely reflects the outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as the stock of debt remains excessive , consumers dismiss declining interest rates as nothing more than the fed ’s temporary subsidy .
in london , prime minister david cameron is currently on the offensive . he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the cyclically-adjusted deficits rate to 1.5 % of gdp this year , thereby targeting a 3.5 % - of-gdp deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . upon assuming office , he has entrusted budget projections to a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any sleight-of-hand opportunity . but , while he likes to raise her vote , he is acting with prudence today : in reality , germany ’s fiscal adjustment is very gradual . the countries facing fiercest budget battles are , the eu , the united kingdom , and america , where fiscal deficits have exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 .
other large and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subjected to eu treaties to their acquisition of certain types of arms and military equipment . are they to return to their homes and farm sectors that no longer exist ? indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one of the fundamental components of egypt ’s stability in peace with israel . what sense would it take to bring back millions of palestinians into a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them , a state in which majority belongs to another ethnic group ? are they to return to their homes and farm sectors that no longer exist ?
among other things , berlusconi has modified italy ’s political system in such a way as to stop the left from ever regaining full power once again to block any criminal charge that could be leveled against him . the constitutional amendments that renzi ’s yes campaign asks voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s legacy – a legacy that serves as a prime example of damaging right-wing populism can make to the country . in austria , voters will choose between pro- and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer as the austrian freedom party ’s austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for hofer could add wind to le pen ’s sails . renzi ’s proposed reforms , among others , will modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the parliament ’s upper house ) .
as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treat all forms of collective action as subversive , may be viewed as reflecting a growing sense of security . still , it is important to remember that there is a positive aspect to the party ’s self-confidence . consider the harsh treatment of the gadfly ’s critic , liu xiaobao , who was sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching a internet petition drive championing civil liberties . conversely , some of china ’s most disquieting moves may well be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . would a truly self-confident ruling elite be so skittish on its activism ?
but it makes a difference whether a good is produced at home or abroad . within the developed world , there has long been growing concern about such behavior as `` predation ' -- and well-defined norms . anti-dumping laws aim to ensure fair trade by withholding imports below cost . but debates about competition and fair trade again reveal intellectual poverty and the inequity of trade negotiations . with globalization , it would be natural to expand such principles to the international arena , making it irrelevant whether the producer is domestic or foreign when judging whether it is engaged in unfair trade practices .
arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous business , which brings few quick gains . but the start of the treaty ratification proceeds nowhere fast in america ’s senate and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty to force ; and initiating negotiations over a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthen the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and deter treaty walk-outs ; reach an agreement on some form of international managing director of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and all start rounds of disarmament . if it is to be avoided , continued leadership from the top – above all by obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – will become indispensable . with domestic issues and reelection anxieties now dominating most of the political agendas , it will be all too easy for a commitment to wane . but there are several major contributions that less powerful states and leaders , like civil-society organizations , can make .
i had only toured these cells : it is , quite literally , impossible to kill yourself in them . this “ manifest suicide ” seemed immediately suspect . their interiors resemble within a smooth plastics jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold ; there is no bedding that one can use to strangle oneself . this “ manifest suicide ” has appeared to be immediately suspect . the army has been investigating the military .
decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is urgently needed to improve the reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries . but gathering information is only one step toward closing loopholes in criminal laws and overcoming gaps in prevention policies . moreover , because more needs to be done to enhance the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , unodc works with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . in south africa , for example , unodc has established three centers ( in romania , the eastern cape , and the northern cape ) that offers legal counsel and medical care to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . this includes exploring male-on-female violence causes and assessing related risk factors , such as the prevalence of drug and alcohol use .
adding to the attractiveness of emerging-market sovereign securities ’ portfolios , its returns are not perfectly correlated with equity returns . a key driver of higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon of such sovereign bonds . beyond a return in itself , there is every sign that emerging-market and developing economies now account for about two-thirds of global gdp , compared to only one-third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely a domestic affair . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have risen in the wake of america ’s recent court of conduct . such findings are no invitation to embrace indiscriminate risk taking .
what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market train wreck . in countries where nonrecourse loans enable borrowers to walk away from a home when its value exceeds that of their homes , a housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagnation . in countries where nonrecourse loans allow borrowers to walk away from a home when its value exceeds that of their homes , a housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises . but higher home prices will rise , the further they will drop – and the greater collateral economic and financial damage will come – when a bubble deflates .
some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia needs to confront iran , standing up for sunni arab interests and turn into a hands-on regional power . but the arab world is split on how to cope with the sudden rise of iranian power . other saudis believe that confrontation will lead only to wider wars and urge dialogue and brinkmanship . in this view , the us , not iran , has produced the region ’s current difficulties . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned the us about the dangers of iraq ’s potential collapse , and now finds itself at the unequal side of the middle east .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . after all , both leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit in buenos aires last december , and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to an end to the trade war remains far from clear . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
when asked to choose between the risks of posterity as a central banker who lets the system break down and the intangible future advantages of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take genius to predict a central banker ’s ’s decision . so , knowing that the next time will not be different , the authorities are trying their best to avoid another round of action . but risk takers have every incentive to try their happiness again , knowing that at worst they will be jettisoning them . democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are economically or politically important , such as finance or real estate , that allow them to privatize gains and socialize losses . even as the authorities insist that the next time will be different , everyone knows that they will make the same choices when confronted with the same choices again .
though such disparities may , of course , have other causes as well , geography seems to explain a lot . but , in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what might matter increasingly are transport costs , which implies that geography can breed deep regional inequalities . among major continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has a small coastline segment of its coastline but vast interior regions . first , it explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and rapidly after the country embarked on market-oriented reforms and opened up to the world . when the underlying object of human consumption was food , this was not a problem , because what mattered was land and water .
the idea that some version of soros ’s plan would accelerate growth is speculative , at best . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of the sub-prime mortgage contraction on aggregate demand ( which the us and johnson and soros have not done ) fail to heed their claims : extra spending per dollar of relief was probably smaller than dime on the dollar of government resources expended . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in 2009 , it would have been hard or impossible to extract more money for a troubled asset relief program . that leaves aside the further lesson , gained from experience , that institutions with large sums of public capital tend to be rather passive in favor of increasing lending . most of the benefits from mortgage flows to consumers simply over time .
keynes ’s dictum has become the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of its few to survive ) . because many treaties are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easily revised ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the economy . rising prices reduce the value of saving and incomes , while falling prices depress profit expectations , encourage hobble , and add to the real debt burden . in the ten years leading up to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of around 2 % , with the aim of providing economies with a price-stability “ anchor . ” keynes ’s dictum became the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of its few to survive ) .
margaret thatcher was always an opposition to the ideal of a politically integrated europe . under the rule of law , the british can avoid unwelcome developments in the eu because the union is founded on a treaty ; as a result , the british have an effective veto over any treaty change . today , the british appear to be an insuperable obstacle to attainment by the others of a more integrated eu . in practice , the brics may already be able to avoid unwelcome developments in the eu because the union is founded on a treaty ; as a result , the british have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the brics have already lost that power , because they demanded , and receive the right to opt out of participating in emu .
the united states is gripped by the most bizarre presidential primaries in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of a revival of national sovereignty is fueling the anti-eu campaign . brazil is being paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and it is a political crisis that has reached its lowest level since the end of the cold war . europeans are tracking their own malaise to a democratic deficit in europe . princeton – or at least not least – democracy everywhere faces severe challenges .
given uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . but there is no superior alternative to the alternative . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for re-profiling . persuading the bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so in view of the united states ’ recent court decisions , which strengthen the hand of holdout investors . to avoid being exciting , markets would have to be voluntary .
water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to a bare minimum , a decision affecting the millions of people already enduring scorching temperatures . the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked by sectarian violence and civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage water resources . at rukban , a refugee camp on jordan has ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents receive barely five liters per day for cooking , dry-drinking water , and washing . in times of scarcity , it is the refugees who are likely to be among the first to feel the effects .
at the same time , japan ’s ’s ’s ’s demographic trends will drag on fiscal expenditure demand as pension and health-care costs rise . japanese households hold some ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will be exceeded in about 3-5 years by japan ’s value . and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it difficult for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits . at that point , government debt will no longer back up to us taxpayers ’ assets . first , jgbs ’s volume has soared relative to japanese household assets .
one key decision facing serbia and its new authorities is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague . after some procrastination and incipient failed efforts , milosevic has been apprehended without bloodshed , if not without risk . one key decision facing serbia and its new authorities is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague . a peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage conflict and difficult independence decisions , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle on these issues by talking rather than fighting . more recently , much has been done in yugoslavia , much of it surprising .
the ecb ’s independence is its most precious asset – indeed , it is indispensible . as political pressure on central banks – including the ecb – increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , if necessary , publicly named and publicly , shame . this is not to say that the ecb ’s president should pick fights whenever possible . on the contrary , he should build support for the ecb ’s independence . a good central banker must be allowed to say no to politicians .
but the eu is a political entity that has transformed social justice into one of its fundamental aims . it took until last summer to recognize – and even then only to a modest level – that this aid can be deployed to support economic recovery . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . europe ’s ’s final flaw was one of its disregard for equitable burden-sharing . in principle , greece could count on a large amount of regional development aid from europe ’s budget , underutilized owing to its lack of local co-financing .
brussels – the aftermath of europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is all too present throughout much of the european union , as distressed economies attempt to stabilize and grow simultaneously . notwithstanding important decisions made over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do more to come to terms with the challenges facing the eurozone . joint financial backstops being put on hold . and the european central bank has consistently shown itself to be standing with europe . reform and consolidation measures are taking place across the eu .
yet the rise of interactive social networking has transformed financial innovation into a more bottom-up approach . in the future , client-service and transaction-management systems will receive more input from customers more often in order to shape product design . yet the financial sector has , in earlier eras , proved that it could operate as a public good by making trustworthy , efficient services available . the current financial-sector strategy drives over-competition by raising the market ’s share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customers for the benefit of short-term gains . millions of bank customers use mobile phones can provide instant feedback that products and services that they like or dislike .
the path forward lies in the democratic form of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority for statehood while respecting local and regional cultures . that sentiment is strengthened when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . so the unraveling of multinational states stands out as a false route . nowadays , micro-nationalism ’s upsurge is not only a result of the revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread revulsion for the notion that modern states ’ chief function is to smany their peoples ’ lives in a globalized market , dominated by efficiency imperatives and cheapness ; heedless of the damage to non-economic activity .
the optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that americans have never had it so good . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw many – especially many chinese – as passing the torch . if there is any continuity worth underscoring , it is the regular cohabitation of boosterism with declin: america ’s glass is always half full and half-empty . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that americans have never had it so good . still , one can question whether the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century , and if it does , whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economic and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunity .
in the past , going to london from paris , one could easily make a difference between the two cities . but even as those uncertainties are playing out , both countries are engaging in a sort of zero-sum transfer of emotions that is impossible to ignore . london has been bursting through dynamism and pride in assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . today , confidence has been sucked out of britain through social and political upheaval , terrorism , and insecurity about the country ’s future . paris , though undeniably fairer , has been at odds with becoming a new rome , a captive of its past glory , at best , but not the eu .
such speculative investments can further reinforce the trend , pushing futures prices further away from mark-to-market equilibrium , especially as a growing number of investors follow suit or those who invest enough funds to influence markets . such speculative investments can further reinforce the trend , pushing futures prices further away from mark-to-market equilibrium , especially as a growing number of investors follow suit , or those who invest enough funds to influence markets . indeed , empirical evidence yields no clear answer concerning which the hypothesis is sound . index funds are a good example for such powerful investors . they have become key market players , holding roughly 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts .
new york – president george w. bush is endangering the united states and the safety of the world , while undermining american values . if reelected , bush ’s doctrine of preemptive action – and the invasion of iraq – is being endorsed , and the world will have to live with the consequences . for opposing it , i have been demonized bush ’s campaign . president george w. bush , in 2000 , was running on a platform promising “ humble ” foreign policy . i have never been heavily engaged in partisan politics , but these are not ordinary times .
the balkan stability pact of 1999 and massive international support helped to rebuild local education , while the development of innovative vocational training and training systems to boost long-term employment . the results of many projects in these countries are being encouraging , with the current focus on training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and unemployed . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the wars of succession that followed annihilated large parts of serbia ’s traditional education and training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . since then , stability and hope have started to return to a region affected by the devastation of war and widespread desperation for social displacement . the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s have ravaged not only the millions of people , but also the very social institutions that gave shape to their lives .
there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who is sleepwalking away , not someone pretending to be asleep . whether iran ’s ’s international interlocutors conduct the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not of ignorance . there can be no route from the middle east to agony , commitment , and decisiveness by all parties . thus , two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s people , who demonstrate that they understand the challenges they face , and another by its new president who assembled the best team available to carry out an enormously difficult agenda . in the middle east , so fraught with uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally significant state rather than a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions transcend what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest .
nairobi – with the unemployment rate soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets in free-fall , this may at first glance seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and place environmental investments on hold . in the past , anxiety over the environment has been viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a matter of necessity – a point grasped by some , but by no means all , of its economic architects . but this would be an immediate mistake , as well as intergenerational , proportions . president barack obama ’s large slice of us president barack obama ’s administration ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package includes a boost to renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” millions of homes , and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid . far from business-as-usual , over-stretched global economy , ecological investment is precisely what is required to get people back to work , get the books flowing , and help powering environmental investments .
that is why sudden austerity can not be the morale builder of any kind . but the us is not happy with the unemployment performance that results from an abrupt fiscal crisis . for its morale , we need a social compact that finds a purpose for everyone , a way to demonstrate oneself to be part of society by being a worker of some sort . and for that we need fiscal stimulus – ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures just like that . we might perhaps all have been happy to work fewer hours if the decline reflected gradual social progress .
at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be the understanding that just as today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s ’s future growth will influence how much debt restructuring is needed . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when the board filed a petition in the federal court of justice . that federal law , enacted in june 2016 , has also established an oversight board with the fiscal decision-making authority to the american commonwealth . such decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much they may be able to bail out its creditors . but many crucial decisions have so far been made , for example , about how much overall debt relief will be delivered and how a “ haircut ” will be distributed among holders of various kinds of bonds .
the european union is even more instructive , because centuries of warfare , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired , rather than discouraged , europe ’s economic , political , and security integration . an economic bonus to such an endeavor throughout the region would come from opening direct flights and sea transport across the taiwan strait . as a result of historic suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s latest remaining regional bloc , which still lacks an inter-governmental organization of asean ’s likes . ceagpol could even become a construction block for the northeast asian version of asean – the “ association of northeast asian nations . ” with goodwill on all sides , the real advantages may materialize from building this informal grouping , as it is the gateway to asean ’s enormous markets .
many years ago , the late nobel laureate economist george stigler and i published an article proposing ways to reduce malfeasance among government employees . even some honest civil servants may become disillusioned , and surrender to many temptations to use illicit means so as to raise their incomes to levels that they deem more appropriate to their responsibilities and training . even some honest civil servants may become disillusioned and surrender to many temptations to use illicit means so that they think more appropriate to their responsibilities and training . many years ago , the late nobel laureate economist george stigler and i published an article proposing a way to reduce malfeasance among government employees . we suggested , among other things , that officials in both vulnerable and important posts receive a higher rate of pay rather than a comparable level of private-sector responsibility .
last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of syria ’s “ ” campaign . not only are the millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global framework of human rights and humanitarian law is on trial as well . but the current rules-based international system , with its decade in making , remains most seriously threatened by the syrian civil war . now those risks are being overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with confrontation in the united nations security council threatening to subordinate syria within the pecking order of international trouble . london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea – has undermined global security and dominated headlines .
it will take some time to build up such endowments in europe and elsewhere . to be sure , there is an additional feature that many higher education institutions have an endowment that they can apply to rebalancing inequities . even so , the principle is surely right : universities need to be set free . this is true for its financial parameters as well as for its financial parameters as well . public and private donations are combined in a variety of ways as well .
applying the classic economic valuations of everything from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy to wetlands destruction and increased hurricane damage from global warming , economists show just how much each problem affects every problem . but , rather than picking facts and narratives to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should attempt to compare across all domains of human existence to see whether the world really is doing better or worse . to estimate a magnitude of the problem , it is compared to the total resources that are available to correct it . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all answered the same question : what amounted to the relative costs of this problem every year , from 1900 to 2013 , all of the way to 2013 , with predictions to 2050 . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i sought to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years .
trade is the transmission belt , through which supply adjusts to demand . but there is the political prescription that is available to leaders today that might help remove supply-side constraints : more trade . this proposition may puzzle some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . it enables the fed to travel from the lands of plenty to lands of little to do with them . clearly , investment in food production needs to increase in the medium and longer term .
with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform threatening to engulf america ’s economy . but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had been predicted . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . he avoids urgently needed reforms and would leave a country with mountains of debt ; the consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – take decades to undo . instead , the quagmire has been growing broader and deeper .
the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders saw such a world . in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and current regulation will appear efficient . yet finance can fail in many ways ; lehman collapse is just one . it is common for people to update their view of the world with what they have last seen ; if what they last see is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they conclude that they stabilized the system . if this cycle is even approximately right , regulatory fatigue from battling to making finance safer will quickly turn to the regulatory confidence that the last war has now won .
rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of the steps he takes to change his detractors ’ mind . at best , they would be declared to be “ in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they took to heart the lesson of the rosenhan experiment , and are now making diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously . but , with the psychotic label already affixed into their files , whatever they assumed to be a symptom of their insanity . even if it stops ranting on twitter or talking in convoluted and incoherent phrases , at best , it will be viewed as “ in remission . ”
boston – a resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . it is a challenge that demands greater attention not only from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers to be able to make indispensable contributions to global public health . but , among the many challenges refugees must confront , while they await resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental health tops the list . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help improve the quality and affordability of health care worldwide , by developing faster methods for disease diagnoses and delivering medical services . such contributions are highly applicable to refugees , and they are responsible for them .
over the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime erected more barriers to knowledge utilization , often resulting in a gap between the social returns to innovation and private-sector returns to widen . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped that regime clearly placed the latter first , reflected in their opposition to provisions recognizing the intellectual property rights linked to traditional knowledge or biodiversity . the current ip regime is not sustainable , but nor is it the case today . even among early industrializers , ip protection has come very late , and often has been deliberately eschewed to allow for faster industrialization and growth . today , the widespread adoption of rigorous ip protections is also historically unprecedented .
despite the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : while the ecb has repeatedly tried to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange interventions , the fed has intervened only once . during this period , the dollar has strongly appreciated against major currencies , and by 1985 , virtually every measure has been overvalued . so long as those interests diverge , the us should expect little coordination of foreign exchange policies between the two central banks . during this period , the dollar has been strongly appreciating against major currencies , and by 1985 , virtually every measure has been overvalued . this has confirmed america ’s interest in keeping with the strong dollar .
regardless of whether these meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme symbolic : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policymaking . but , should n’t the eu possess only a single representative ? after all , a key reason for european integration at the forefront of european integration was precisely to give a stronger voice to europe in the international arena . in upcoming g8 meetings ( the world ’s club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members -- germany , france , italy , and the uk -- would participate in both individually and as european members , whose president attends them to represent the eu as a whole . a key argument in favor of such a change is that joint participation by the eu would increase european weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis america .
indeed , two types of slippery slopes – logical and sociological – exist . one can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another , even though the two conceptually differing – just because the very existence of one creates a social climate receptive to the latter . on a logical slippery slope , you slide to the bottom and embrace morally unacceptable , for there is no way to differentiate it from an acceptable practice . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning . the thinking behind a slippery slope is that if you do x , which is acceptable , you will end up doing y that is not .
the result is a collapse of currency and a wave of bankruptcies . soon , devaluation in a nearby country reveals just how vulnerable an economy is suffering the loss of international confidence . the us economy is confronting its most severe economic crisis in many decades . the central bank tries to hold the exchange rate down , but ultimately is forced to let the currency float . suddenly , foreign creditors curtail their short-term credit lines .
if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the positions of its current permanent members , these actions were more likely to produce the opposite effect . likewise , rearguarguard efforts to demonstrate that those who opposed the war in iraq were both right and that america and britons wrong , combined with demands for `` proof '' that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , are unconstructive and merely stoking mutual irritation . if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the positions of its current permanent members , then those actions tended to produce the opposite effect . nevertheless , it is important to recognize why the us is undertaking them and responding to the underlying problem of the international order in today 's international order . the world may not back america in its unilateral attempt to become global policeman , mainly because it may well incite more instability .
unfortunately , this appears likely to come only with both russia and iran ’s blessing , both of which seem more inclined to increase their support for president bashar al-assad than to work for his removal . a change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which is acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . some 8,000 refugees per day – the modern-day volkerwanderung – enter germany , in part owing to harsh conditions back home , and in part owing to germany ’s willingness to take them in . clearly , public policy can not succeed when it focuses on the consequences , rather than causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees daily – the advanced day , volkerwanderung – enter germany , in part owing to harsh conditions back home and partly owing to germany ’s willingness to take them in .
more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical clash with iran , a major us military maneuver – the juniper cobra exercise – was carried out to test israel ’s integration into america ’s ballistic missile defenses . israel has also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , contributing to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . this has been a major contribution , they argue , to develop a planned nato missile-defense shield for europe . both sides appear eager to expand the reach of their partnerships , with the goal of achieving a high level of interoperability . american sources have described the drill as being the most comprehensive air-defense system in the us , the us ’ve ever done anywhere in the world .
despite talk about the us government negotiating an agreement with its captors , that option , too , would be fraught with peril . it is believed that girls were divided into separate groups in order to imperil any attempt to rescue one ’s others . even if all girls ultimately do eventually come home , nothing would ever become the same again for them or for their families . it is hard to see how girls could be returned safely . launching a military rescue operation would be highly risky , and it would be impossible to know .
three years later , greece is in dire need of fresh restructuring . the country has played by the rules of financial markets ’ “ ” and has managed to finalize a rapidly restructuring process ; but the deal was bad , and has not helped the economy recover . the absence of a rule of law on debt restructuring delayed fresh start and may well lead to chaos . excessive sanctions lead to the negative-sum game in which the borrower can not recover and creditors alike from benefiting from the larger repayment capacity that the recovery would entail . the distressed debtors need a fresh start .
or perhaps they would be sold on the black market in order to enrich corrupt government officials . history suggests that if we had been to make these drugs available to poor countries for ring prophylaxis , they would often have been administered improperly – such as in suboptimal doses – in ways that foster viral resistance and only intensify a pandemic . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would have been for rich countries to dedicate resources to developing countries primarily to oversight . the anti-flu drug tamiflu and relenza is extraordinarily expensive and in short supply . we would have expected to see a wide range of illnesses amongst both staff and patients in hospitals where victims are treated , and soon someone ( perhaps even an out-of-ill carrier ) spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond .
the best solution is to make western labor markets flexible by opening a system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average incomes , such benefits are likely even when migrants work and pay taxes and social-security contributions . but , even with such measures , social benefits may artificially add incentives to immigrate . when workfare replaces welfare , wages become more flexible , thus enabling eu labor markets to absorb immigrants more effectively . given that migrant workers typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average incomes , such benefits are likely even if migrants work and pay taxes and social-security contributions .
president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . but , with their government unable to do anything about expanding israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and a al-aksa mosque , the west bank palestinians remain extraordinarily frustrated . the palestinian authority running through the west bank fears that a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn violent . if it does , israel might use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly-constructed institutions . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of ongoing israeli resistance .
the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis – characterized by sluggish gdp growth and declining western import demand – makes reform all the more urgent . to prevent such an outcome , li must adjust china ’s ’s growth model to current conditions , which range from intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , increased pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , aging populations , sluggish urbanization , and rising labor costs . li must ensure that china – which still boasts significant growth potential – fails to sink into lethargy and fall into the so-called middle-income trap . wages continue to rise , declining competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies ; but the growth model is far from being equipped to support competitiveness in high-skill industries leads to stagnation . a developing economy may be slow prematurely when external factors change conditions that promote growth .
to succeed , moon will need to re-examine the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising actions , and avoid the most glaring pitfalls . in fact , with his democratic party holding just 40 % of the national assembly ’s 299 seats , he will need to win support from centrist parties , and even conservative opposition . but , after nine years of conservative rule , the moon will be unable simply to swoop in and implement his agenda . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the key problem that such large-scale hiring could generate is the longstanding financial upheavals that such large-scale hiring could generate . moreover , he will need broader public backing .
according to centers for disease control and prevention , about 18 % of america ’s children under the age of 6-11 are not only overweight , but obese . child commercial tv programs are replete with advertising for processed foods of dubious value to human health . it ’s hard to compete for non-profits to compete for manufacturing values embodied in beyoncé ’s pepsi commercial , or taylor swift ’s diet coke trades . the causes of obesity are complex , and the science of our understanding of human behavior is embryonic ; but it is not the hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . and , for every celebrity toiling time to fight obesity , there are tens of thousands who accept major payments to us hawk products , such as the ultra-sugary drinks that is arguably the generation ’s tobacco .
europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , is struggling to address its own challenges , never mind becoming a global player . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s ’s states and peoples are more intertwined than ever , as ideas , information , finance , migrants , and trouble flows ever more seamlessly across borders . but america today is on the back foot , economically , and militarily . new powers such as china and india are rising rather than rising , mixing assertiveness with emphasis on their continuing “ developing ” status . so no one is in charge .
according to the imf , only america ’s economy will continue to grow faster over the next four years , with the uk then resuming the lead . last year , its growth rate was at its highest level in the g-7 . and per capita gdp surely must be preferable to aggregate gdp . but there is also little doubt that the uk ’s recovery has picked up accelerated after 2012 . according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow faster over the next four years , with the uk then resuming the lead .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is an matter that rests solely among man & his god . ” offering assurances to a connecticut group of connecticut baptists who worry about their religious liberty , he pointed out that the first change in establishment of the clause and the free exercise clause had erected “ the wall of separation ” between church and state .
but , by overcoming the differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are reinforcing the support of a world order grounded in a collective solution to shared problems . we are making progress on both issues , but much work remains to be done . bringing together countries with competing interests and varying degrees is a hard work . i spoke personally with more than 50 foreign leaders , and all of us agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the devastation in west africa and stem the spread of ebola . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and calls for relationships that have been built and sustained over decades , as well as alliances with new partners .
because of this 23 % penalty for repatriation , american companies generally choose not to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to the u.s. to invest or distribute to its shareholders , it must pay america ’s current corporate tax rate of 35 % on its former pretax earnings , with credits equal to 12 % that it has already paid . that subsidiary pays the irish corporate tax at ireland ’s low 12 % rate . it 's then free to reinvest the after-tax profits in iran , in us financial securities , or operating businesses anywhere in the world except america . consider a subsidiary of america ’s america corporation , which earns profits in iran .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” ” europe can secure greater economic independence from other powers , starting with the eu as a global currency . the problem does not follow national boundaries , and therefore demands collective global action . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument to mobilize massive capital shops for investment in infrastructure , research , and development , as well as other essential areas . but the shift toward a carbon-neutral economy also offers far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy in place , europe can reinvigorate its own technological innovations and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets against lower-cost production in china and elsewhere .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . and , like the us economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . fifty years ago , seeking to read about india in the west , you would mostly identify books about spirituality . today , india sees that the wider world , particularly the west , regards it with increasing respect , not only in terms of the country ’s performance , but also in its essence – a young country , and that is an ancient civilization as well . in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced free-market capitalism that had produced spectacular economic progress .
and , as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have little choice but to come together to defend our own interests . a careful analysis of merkel ’s words reveals that she has not been questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . merkel knows that if the american sacrifices her place at the top of the international order for domestic political reasons are not about to replace the new leadership power of the us or the new global order that has emerge . rather , she has been calling for a stronger europe . what the us will be a power vacuum , marked by chaos .
there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party simply loses control of the country . this is why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . the bottom line is that questions like , “ are we creating too much inequality ? ” democracy is not merely a mechanism for helping to avoid strategic mistakes . the point is that questions like , “ are we producing too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china .
in south africa , south african development community ( ecowas ) , following a shaky start , is pressing ahead with joint projects , of which transportation infrastructure – blitzkrieg – is a central theme . less spectacularly , but perhaps more consequential in the long term , ecois is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the establishment of the single currency now a stated goal . indeed , a number of interesting practical moves in this direction are now underway , albeit not all of them are pursuing the old regional course set by its founders . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly demonstrated both the willingness and capacity to arouse power to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . likewise , east african countries are pressured by integration projects ahead , and seem to have learned from past failures in a region that were the product of hastily constructed , improperly , and overly ambitious structures .
but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a cap that germany is already hitting . with private-sector demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as an employer of last resort . the european central bank ( ecb ) appears to be much more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to push insolvent firms toward bankruptcy than in promoting higher employment . so , where is this demand-driven growth ? unless a future government is bold enough to break the pact with abandon , its single alternative will be to raise taxes that would merely prolong a very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high .
and ireland is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . new york city – in his remarkable apology to iran ’s catholics ( most of whom are the rural population ) – pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests were tempted to commit sexual actions to children . as we now know , abuses by catholics of catholics did not only occur in ireland , but in many other countries as well , something that the pope preferred not to dwell . it was because of the “ new and grave challenges ” stemming from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society .
egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . egypt ’s approach to the sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect of the sinai peninsula . last august , the israelis allowed an additional 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty permits in zones and armies never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to permit units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors dispersed around cairo and its environs . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in poland . last august , the israelis permitted additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in zone c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought together a regional command in sinai , preferring to permit units temporarily stationed there to report tanks across the suez canal .
not surprisingly , given such a model , a growing number of men want to participate just as they do . “ thirty percent of women in many parts of the middle east ” countries have university degrees , ” ” ” zaleski explains , but often unable to acquire jobs commensurate with their training for cultural reasons . their home page reveals a smiling young female manager , based in chile , and a company push to enlist women in palestinian territories – not for ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . the founders do not rule out eventually expanding to cope with that need . with powertofly ’s technological ability to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the highest levels to an american company , even though local laws prohibiting her from driving a car .
it is too early to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s presidency as france ’s president . to be sure , no one elected monti , and his position is fragile and already challenged , but there is a positive near-consensus that has enabled italy to launch long-overdue structural reforms . but , in italy , one person , mario monti is already making a difference . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship is returning to europe even when it comes to homeopathic doses . so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe – the often-rational argument to persuade pessimistic analysts and worried investors alike – that it is highly premature to bury europe and the eu completely .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , prolonged unemployment periods for parents have had a severe and enduring negative impact on their children . but america failed to provide this – a point recently made by jean bush , a leading contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination . many of these decisions have been proven wrong , largely because information technologies ( computers and how they are used ) have eliminated many middle-class jobs . children whose families can not provide a decent start in life deserves aid . rising globalization of trade , too , has not helped in this respect .
all too often , they spend money supporting private-sector projects that fail to yield positive returns to the broader economy . in most european countries , steps to spur private-sector investment in local services and transport sectors – both large sectors – should also weigh on them . and they must commit rigorous cost-benefit analyses to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment , which promotes productivity growth . it is here – at the level of execution – that governments often perform poorly . at the level of execution , it is here that governments often perform poorly .
here is where the connection between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty , they ask more meat and dairy . and clearing land for pasture releases carbon dioxide at a staggering pace . animals consume more food than they produce ; but they do not produce , because they do . this trend has grave implications for agriculture ’s ’s ’s ecological footprint . in fact , animals tend to consume more food than they produce .
but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lifting people out of poverty and foster sustainable development . the african development bank ( afdb ) , a presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansionary mandate . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , the central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have been working for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have oversaw the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state . the leaders of such organizations need to make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . for example , they need to balance the struggle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , enhance educational access , or address corruption .
berlin – europe ’s established left faces the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered an historic loss in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of the most significant reasons is as grim as it is straightforward : european voters are increasingly opposed to immigration and do not trust the left to restrict it . on a continent long defined by democratic competition among center-right and center-left parties , the collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond special party interests .
finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s main strategic rival , a china that is becoming increasingly dependent on the middle east ’s energy supplies . the us is expected to become an energy self-sufficient in 2020 and become an oil exporter by 2030 . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . this scenario would grant america the three enormous advantages to the us . it would enhance american economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower cost of us involvement in shale gas ’s extraction .
the gap between their objective analyses of reality and government policies has become a chasm . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide over income levels and other indicators among some affluent cities , benefiting from globalization and the rest of the country . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp is now reallocated to the country ’s poorest parts . traditional parties could also learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than simply via media filters and pollsters . yet , not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration has done a national leader enact tax cuts based on where one ’s own lives .
whatever the gilets jaunes might advocate , the obvious is that the us could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than the us could by spending it in france . suppose that the experiences of visiting or recalling notre dame make people about twice as much as they otherwise would have been over that time , meaning that the extra hour spent in notre dame , or that in recalling one ’s visit , is as good a way to spread someone ’s life by the hour . how many more lives are worth ? suppose that we are saving lives for people who would live 60 more years ; the 9,000 years of annual benefits is equivalent to saving more than 150 lives a year . that ’s a significant number of lives , but we now need to ask how much more lives could be saved .
on september 20 , germany ’s government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of emission cuts . spending on such priorities as energy and the environment can be helpful . but gaining serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals may not mean larger budget deficits . in fact , some view germany ’s renewed commitment to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 to achieve the paris climate agreement ’s goals as a battering ram against the schwarze null null . in the us , such a package would be called the greenpeace deal .
in the real world , opening up is not a straightforward matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment . any economist who appears to question the benefits of trade openness risks banishment , so let me be unequivocal : i am not asking the standard version of the gains-from-from-trade theory , but extravagant , unwarranted claims made on the implications of openness . it demands heavy doses of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , political funds . while many institutional reforms are development-friendly , perhaps they are not targeted by key developmental objectives – growth , improved governance , industrial , and technological capabilities , poverty alleviation – and occasionally deflect attention from them . in the real world , opening up is not a straightforward matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment .
with the assessors frequently basing their conclusions on only a superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects are often agreed upon , despite not adhering to broadly agreed green development guidelines . this is because , as it stands , technical specialists typically conduct seas at the behest of project developers – a practice that , as activists repeatedly point out , is grossly unethical . but , as the examples cited above discovered , the seas are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , the seas must be a rigorous , credible , and transparent process . this implies that they must be pursued by well-regulated , impartial professionals .
prior to the crisis , regulators focused mainly on removing barriers to trading , and favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering more quickly , cheaper trading by a broader range of financial claims . by contrast , nowadays , many are questioning the assumption that greater market effectiveness is always and everywhere the public good . but there are signs that such assumptions are now being challenged . might such ease and effectiveness not fuel market instability , serving the interests of intermediaries rather than their customers ? that is no longer the case now .
and xinhua squandered no time in claiming that the abuses were confined to a handful of towns . nonetheless , the central government authorities did little to halt intimidation of linyi ’s villagers . following arduous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc chose to investigate . xinhua reported that local officials responsible for the violence could be prosecuted . following through , strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc chose to investigate .
the 2008 global financial crisis exposed the fundamental flaws in the international monetary system as the failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed against heavily indebted emerging asian economies . these risks explain why the fed ’s single-minded suggestion of a potential move to reduce its purchases of long-term assets ( so-called “ quantitative easing ” ) drove emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . they also underscore the asian economies ’ need for stronger financial safety nets . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger an abrupt reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 – straining asian banks and corporations . tighter american monetary policy could intensify the global credit shortfall , thereby intensifying pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems .
the question today is not about the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been determined . for many russians , if not the majority , the authority figure embodies powers that control everything that matters in life ; they support it , regardless of the policies it implements , owing to the lack of opportunities that they do not otherwise . with the presidential term now extended to six years , one can expect to see an encore lasting up to 12 years – longer than putin ’s initial performance . this partly explains enduring popular allegiance to rulers like joseph stalin . but now a delusional and ignorant attitude is to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around .
but , whereas yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president of excessive powers , the underlying cause of the orange government ’s ’s breakdown was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko appointees ) were defectors from the old regime . initially , he traveled to the world for months to celebrate his victory , ignoring the chaos back home . the other major shortcoming was that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , had turned out to be a feckless and irresponsible president . the old regime ’s adherents may more readily trick the newcomers into dangerous compromises should the process turn out to be exceedingly fast . he then began vetoing virtually all of his government ’s decisions , causing a political stalemate and , toward the end of his presidency , tacitly allied with the old guard ( now back in power ) against the then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to her credit , voted against the constitution ) .
the permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism enabled politicians and bureaucrats to use public services as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persists . given this mindset , performance was not a relevant criterion for judging public-sector utility . it embodied a conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being had to stay in indian hands – and not to mention indians seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather in disinterested state hands , father , and mother to all indians . indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism . indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism .
with the ad-driven business model ’s limits becoming increasingly apparent , many media leaders – close to one-third , according to the reuters institute for research – believe that in future fundamentals and nonprofits will play a central role in promoting media attention . technology alone can not stimulate democracy , help answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by advancing accountability . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , rather than algorithms or ai-enabled software . potential funders need to be persuaded that journalism is as noble a cause , say , cancer research . for organizations without clout , and digital revenues , a people-oriented approach may also be needed to ensure investment .
to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to adopt a responsible and clearly defined economic program , and the democrats would have to accept being the junior partner of an untested insurgent power . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s policy could tip the balance . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , has rushed to italy in order to entice m5s and the league to form a “ ultimate dream ” coalition , which he would call the “ ultimate dream , ” because it would break up the eu . a possible key to france ’s trust would be for france ’s democrats to withhold a critical finance ministry , while m5s appoints the prime minister . a pro-eu italy , governed by the m5s-democrat coalition , could join france and germany to reform the eu ; reclaim a clear eu foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis the us , russia , and china ; and implement a green--led strategy .
my statements have also been motivated by problems regarding how capital punishment is imposed in india . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted out will depend on a wide range of variables , beginning with judicial and social biases . the us supreme court has declared that the death penalty should be applied only in rarest of the scarce ” cases . and , indeed , the last three executions in the country stemmed from terrorist offenses that have threatened or taken a lot of lives . but the decision about imposing capital punishment remains highly subjective .
the longer-term effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound saving . while this time , the gains probably will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and scale of the fed ’s tightening , interest paid on savings will shift household incomes in the right direction : up . during the most recent tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , households ’ interest incomes have risen by 29 % . and average hourly wages for all workers on private nonfarm payrolls posted an annual rise of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families retain their hard-earned savings at the imf will finally begin to realizing some return on their deposits .
beijing – most western media have characterized the recent 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as pure power games , with chinese president xi jinping entrenching his position . for xi , that end represents a smooth transition to modernity that cements the cpc ’s long-held authority , ensuring its own legacy as a modern “ china ” ’s most important leader . but hoarding political capital in this case is a means to an end . xi knows that if china continues to flourish in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage deftly a major social and economic transformation , whereas , even more important , improvement in state governance . and , to ensure china ’s long-term survival , he must reform the state and party ’s institutions ; indeed , political reform , for xi , is a boon to economic reform .
after all , dire conditions today are the product of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . at best , our design could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thus transform economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . but , even with all the hardship of corruption and inefficiency that will undoubtedly plague its real implementation , our proposal has been superior to the status quo . another question is how much income should be shifted , and how transfers can be effected in a country as big , complex , and financially backward as nigeria . the time for action is now .
recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , deficient banking supervision , and a lack of financial information that can not be ignored . financial markets are best understood as an historic process , and history never quite repeats itself . this can not be answered in an abstract way , because every situation is different . after all , financial markets are best understood as a historic process , and history never quite repeats itself . the question poses on its own : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ?
indeed , the experience with sars in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands out as a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control of larger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and the mainland china sea . indeed , these epidemics may well be eliminated completely in coming months . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist , or that the virus will re-emerge into human animal populations . screening travelers from affected regions may have avoided major epidemics elsewhere . health officials worldwide should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility of renewed control efforts if sars resurges .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to launch a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum to address resource transparency while unnecessarily reinventing the wheel in the process . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles that are available to achieve a global standard of disclosure and accountability . it is hard to see how democracy can take root if the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s most important income source remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam ’s . likewise , neither the us nor britain has used its power in iraq to support transparency in its oil sector . let us hope that the new iraqi government is doing better .
this is not to say that israel should be consoled by the macabre arithmetic of the bloodshed . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims present themselves as faceless ; the lionization of incomparably fewer gazan casualties is making them unique . the story of israel is focused almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . joyce karam , the washington bureau of bureau for pan-arab newspapers al-hayat , believes that this is because “ because ” muslim slaughter of muslims or the arab slaughter of the arab spring appears to be more acceptable than israel is killing arabs . there are more united nations resolutions devoted to israel ’s human rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability for a wide range of developing countries . spearheaded by worries about aids , activists around the world have demanded something to be done . such provisions have restricted countries from making drug use generic , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries . yet , whether spurred by narrow ideology or reacting to demands from special interests , the bush administration continues to demand extreme forms of such liberalization in its bilateral trade treaties . a second topic concerns the unbalanced intellectual property clause ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries .
as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s ’s ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . meanwhile , governments will be cooperating on additional measures to reduce the environmental and climate impact of the global maritime trading system . we can expect to see data in the coming years indicating a reduction in health-care costs and improvements in educational outcomes from around the world . such efforts are crucial to meeting the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . now that the cap is coming into force , the us will soon reap the extraordinary effects of a new , permanent global health dividend .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names during the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the “ magic asterisk , ” ” the “ rosy scenario ” ” ” ” ” laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve of beast ” scenarios . these are tough promises to preserve , for the simple reason that the us budget deficit equals government spending minus tax revenues . but each of the four tricks has been refined over three decades . aspiring fiscal conservatives around the world may thus be interested in learning the four tricks that america ’s politicians have commonly used when promising to cut taxes while cutting budget deficits .
the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features in today ’s us financial system . first , governments will bail out the largest banks , rather than allow them to collapse and damage the economy . or has the post-crisis regulatory reform done its job ? second , and worse , being too big to fail helps the big banks grow even bigger , because both creditors and trading partners prefer to work with banks that had an implicit government guarantee . so , which is precisely why : are the banks still at risk ?
while it is far from possible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya in order to improve its image in north africa . the participants in the chicago process will have major differences over such issues , and the results may not be ideal . but reinventing nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily occur in small steps . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration offering further support to the region , on the condition that the region ’s ’s ’s countries request . the alliance ’s ’s key objective must be to ensure that they are steps forward .
in argentina , the left-right divide has been blurred by the hydra-headed policies perónist justicialist party that privatized state companies in the 1990s only to re-nationalize them later . argentina 's new president-elect , mauricio macri , an training training engineer , is often described in the international press as a “ center-right " party . moreover , the “ center-right " often implies “ conservative , ” ” ” ” and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve ” the status quo . macri is best described as a `` liberal '' . but that label is not entirely correct .
most recently , massive studies analyzing the effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , the so-called nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation identified the so-called modifier snp on which to drop or increase individual lifetime risk . likewise , we learned that only 20-40 % of breast cancers that cluster in families come from the brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – the genetic alterations that are present from birth in every cell of the body , and can be passed on to offspring . increased breast cancer risk is also well known to join several inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition further linked to the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including soft tissues sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases of familial familial breast cancer , however , genetic predispositions remains elusive . women with the abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancer , while the increased risk of ovarian cancer falls to around 55 % for women with brca1 mutations and roughly 25 % for brca2 mutations .
xi ’s government struggles to sustain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , market-oriented economic growth toward a pattern based on domestic consumption and services . a second problem stems from china ’s ’s incomplete shift on the world stage . after the prevailing in world war ii , america immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . in seeking to guide the next phase of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy . the primacy of this domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempted pursuit of global change will lack a clear vision and a coherent strategy .
as a result , we are one of the few countries ready to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement . costa rica is proud to be at the forefront of this approach . and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean 3.3 million fewer cases of dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at high risk of malaria , and fewer food instability and poor diet caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . our commitment to tackling climate change rests on our understanding of the tremendous health risks and costs that arise from inaction . costa rica devotes substantial resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our most significant asset .
but there is a major obstacle to easing tensions : the united states ’ proposed $ 6.5 billion arms sales to taiwan of 30 apache attacks on helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . china-u.s. arms-control talks had earlier stalled , owing to such arms deals . there is now real hope that talks along these lines may succeed . they have since been restarted , an olive branch dispatched to the obama administration . china-u.s. defense cooperation talks had earlier stalled , owing to such arms deals .
in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called “ ceu law , ” ” ” a university of which the university claimed was intent on forcing it out of the eu . and ignatieff has done some backing , at least initially . now the time has come to gain some of its support in brussels . speaking at the european parliament in april 2017 , ceu ’s president and rector michael ignatieff may have said , “ i ’ve received support ” in washington . i have support in berlin , with my support in budapest , [ … ] i won my support in munich .
a majority of chinese doctors and patients , for example , have long considered acupuncture to be an effective treatment for stroke , using it to improve motor , speech , and other functions that have been destroyed . more recently , however , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects have begun . some 36 % of chinese doctors think that the efficacy of acupuncture remains dubious , perhaps because the base of science remains so new . one survey found that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat the stroke ’s effects , with 63 % of female doctors surveyed believing that it would be effective . nearly all trials for acupuncture as a treatment stroke were conducted within china .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – especially the us and europe – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets . clearly , the notion that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or workers ’ hours ) no longer applies . but , even more important , it could be the reason why measured productivity remains persistently weak . in fact , labor ’s declining strength may explain why the phillips curve no longer appears to be holding true . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – particularly the eurozone – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets .
at the same time , a modern economy demands risk-taking . so it is crucial to ensure that everyone can live up to its potential , which requires educational opportunities for everyone everywhere . a country ’s ’s ’s most precious resource is its people , so it is a country . but a trade-off between inequality and growth should not arise . governments can enhance growth , through greater inclusiveness .
instead , consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he or she may choose to relinquish when presented with a sufficiently compelling case . this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of “ consenting ” a patient ’s ” – as though it was something done to a patient like drawing blood or administering a injection : “ dr. smith , please go acquiescence on mr. jones . ” the problem is compounded when consent comes to a mere hours before a major operation , and months after a recent consultation with a surgeon . this may guide patients to consent to practices that they either fail to understand – or want – to do so . consent should not be snatched away , as a train ticket held out for conductor .
however , as talent shortages loom , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward greater investment in professional advancement . so far , this abundance of choice has discouraged companies from spending resources on training employees , who might , after all , soon decide to join a competitor . those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , are better positioned to manage their careers and command higher pay . employers that provide learning opportunities will become a destination for talent . those without in-demand skills struggle and feel disposable .
it would portray the broader conception of the “ singularity , ” ” a hypothetical turning point when an artificial surpasses a human being . in such a future scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about networks of computers engagement with each other , whereas humans stand by . similar to traditional military command-and-control protocols , they acquire power in numbers , and can quickly interact to a wide range of attacks . fortunately , in this case , life still has a long way to be described in terms of art . similar to traditional military command-and-control protocols , they acquire power in numbers , and can quickly interact with a wide range of attacks .
the g20 summit in osaka is approaching the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( the ray of harmony ” ) – in japan . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from his majesty ’s emperor emeritus emperor akihito , the first abdication by a reigning emperor in 202 . it is precisely for this reason that we need to ensure the dfft and turn data into public goods for researchers worldwide . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and to conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of an improved data storage and governance system ” that ensures open access to scientists globally , ” ” ” and the “ sharing of information gained through extensive and multinational cooperation , expedite calls for a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from members of the “ science20 , ” the first abdication by a reigning emperor in 202 .
the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously observed that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are strengthening their brand identity and stalking talent , investment , and business from around the world . to be sure , today , cities are facing many challenges as well . and city services are often more visible for citizens than federal aid ; consider , for example , who responds during a traffic accident or a natural disaster . cities power growth via innovation , trade , and exchange .
two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas friedman , the world ’s author is flat , echoing a number of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trading practices . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been brought on solely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . technological sovereignty would take the place of trade and exchange , and us corporations ’ nationality – even major us multinationals – to become just as important as their business model might be . the dangers are not only that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would jeopardize global prosperity ; they are that such developments are also generating risks of severe political confrontation . if this is where the earlier ideological high order of globalization now stands , china is facing off against not only trump ’s america , but liberal america , too .
instead of accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to change the rules – in their favor . the new political realities were highlighted by the war in iraq , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s search for energy resources in the developing world , and russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s foreign and domestic policy assertiveness . in small-state settings , imposing a dense web of controls is likely to result in the loss of mobile factors of production , while making it harder for labor or capital to flee . small states ’ nervousness and fear have started to increase in roughly a third of 2000 . on the international scene , large states are trying to compel international rules and often to build their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape the wider world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing globalization . ”
this , in turn , opens the way for more and deeper reform . rather than repealing the law , overtime work is to become an easy and relatively inexpensive . a law banning transportation strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy intends to break the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . at the same time , he is preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 . democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy .
as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( as well as japan ) have consistently resisted increases in capital requirements , despite widespread agreement that do business as an indispensable component of effective re-regulation . the banks argue that more effective regulation would restrict credit and slow the pace of economic recovery . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and it is likely to hamper efforts to place europe ’s economy on a sounder footing . with the exception of the united kingdom , an extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has done in the us ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing pan-european financial reforms really is more difficult . governments regard domestic banks as important sovereign-debt buyers .
this reflects a radical conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter seeks to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that comprised the former . similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon ” wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals to fight for the causes that antagonize them from mainstream america . to consolidate their support , thatcher would go headlong with carefully selected enemies – from the british miners in argentina to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri – to the bureaucrats in brussels . every time , trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities forging forging trump ’s core support base . but , however different ideas may be , the tactics are the same .
whereas canvassing for votes in his hometown of southern taiwan on the eve of the elections , president chen and vice president annette lu have been both wounded by assin ’s bullet trains . sympathetic to the outside world , young democracies may be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as their political opponents . sympathetic to this has given president his razor-thin margin of victory – with a mere 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chan , the kuomintang party ’s candidate , and the people ’s first party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election of march 20 – only the third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost to a breaking point . taiwan ’s young democracy now needs to cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s reelection .
even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his grand promises made in 2003 to double the size of russia ’s ’s economy within a decade . but the rise of russia ’s standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power , as well as his longstanding legacy . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed from the very top . in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts twofer . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still fares little better than mexico .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance to become to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were to theirs : a man of the left that moves toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . on the assumption of power , kim and lula managed to adjust , politically and mentally , to the new realities that confronted them , launching much-needed reforms . both immediately confronted the international monetary constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore . like tsipras , both were elected in the midst of an economic crisis . some of the reforms were “ “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ” ) and may not have been possible under right-wing politicians .
annual national economic growth averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed for lee kuan yew ’s world city prize . though the supreme court has cleared him out of all personal malfeasance , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it hard for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . this has not stopped modi from seizing political risks , starting with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . yet history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , the death of more than 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , because he tests his domestic appeals .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome that resistance ; instead , it is simply discouraging initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp annually . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp every year . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit . a chinese businessman told me that real growth was less than half that of the official figure .
turkey ’s actual strengths are its thriving economy , secular democratic system , and the ability to mediate between its western allies and a region that is struggling to join a twenty-first-century mainstream . but , as turkey builds closer ties with the us and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to come to terms with a more assertive russia that is keen to demonstrate itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean – and to retain its foothold in syria . meanwhile , turkey and the united states both have mutual interests in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its standing in the broader transformation of its own neighborhood . for better or for worse , the status quo in the middle east has unraveled , and turkey needs to rethink and recalibrate its regional policies .
with nearly two million patients now on antiretroviral therapy , annual aids-related deaths have declined by about 100,000 since 2005 . such remedies have pushed down rates for new infections ( though the overall number of people living with hiv , mainly from 15-49 , continues to rise ) . the government has aligned its early-antiretroviral therapy programs for existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 , with early monitoring programs for pregnant women . another important factor has been better integrated into treatment plans . contagion among newborn babies , once running at about 70,000 per year , has been slashed by some 63 % and the livelihoods of millions of hiv/aids sufferers .
astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down a new bone , by producing a substance that inhibits cells that break down down bone and promotes those who produce bone and cartilage . these mammals spend up to seven months of a year hibernating , during which time they are fundamentally immobile . consider the polar bear , which has threatened wildlife extinction . but this may occur only when nature ’s cornucopia is conserved , so that current and future generations of researchers can make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . a human population would lose the third or more bone of mass when immobile was introduced over this period .
the whole alliance should commit itself to defeating terrorism . this is about the global order in a stable and prosperous world . but they need stronger support – not only in afghanistan or the united states . there is a strong argument here , too , for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has come under attack , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures reciprocal defense . yet this is not only a european fight or the us .
now the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly incorporate existential questions about europe ’s survival and the entire european project . this implies that the candidates in the coming year are unlikely to focus on domestic issues alone . while there will be some , too , there is also a first round of widespread debate over europe ’s future and policies , particularly in areas such as migration , defense and security , energy , and climate change , as well as relationships with major powers like the united states and russia . after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe is currently aligning itself with the question of how much europe wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and how much social solidarity is advisable . such debates , and thus the european parliament , which emerges next year , are unlikely to follow the standard party lines .
the question should not have been about how to deregulate quickly , but rather about how to develop the right regulatory framework . market failure is a reality of life , but so are the government ’s failure . neo-liberal ideologies presuppose perfect markets , perfect information , and a host of other items that even the best-performing market economies can not satisfy . after all , they had too little regulation – capital and financial market liberalization – on east asia by the imf and america ’s treasury , which led to the 1997 financial crisis . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and a host of others that even the best-performing market economies can not satisfy .
to put any sense at all , monetary policy has had to vary effects on various groups at different times . as a result , importers tend to prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak one . any and all of the monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . an interest-rate hike pleases savers , whereas a rate cut is boon to borrowers . they certainly do , but so , too , is what ?
so the conclusion seems to be that rising wages will not jeopardize china ’s competitiveness over the next ten or even 20 years . in any case , the chinese wage narrative is far more complicated than it might seem . nominal wages may rise , while real wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . and even real wages on the national level will not undermine competitiveness if labor productivity grows faster . even if real wages rise in some coastal cities , the surplus labor ” might keep the national average flat .
because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the existing exchange rate , germany in 2009 became the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . germany , europe as its largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . clearly , germany ’s net exports would remain high , even though the euro has appreciated substantially from its current level . to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , we must look to the trade balance . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world .
against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate for accommodation involving territorial concessions . such structural elements were bolstered by developments in the region , reinforcing a sense among israeli voters that they are being threatened by numerous enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its rockets ; the rise of isis amid state failure in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . in the weeks leading up to the election , the public appeared to have been cultivating the prime minister weary of a prime minister who was in office long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . netanyahu ’s victory was unambiguously an impressive personal comeback . he conducted a campaign relying on his eloquence and charisma , as well as on scare tactics .
throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best plans may sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s coasts in 2007 , and production started in 2010 . but , with last year ’s us presidential election , the situation has begun to get worse . the following year , the petroleum revenue management act ( inet ) has distributed wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . as a result , investment should be gradual , possibly implying a temporary injection of some oil wealth abroad .
but when developing countries pointed their fingers at classified bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and america ’s enthusiasm for greater transparency have diminished . ever since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , with classified bank accounts having thrived . in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on a lack of transparency in financial markets . most developing countries were accumulating massive foreign-currency reserves . but there are some large differences between then and now .
policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi has been able to minimize them . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi has been able to minimize them . in any case , hardships suffered by eu citizens might be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s final prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas – to counteract reform and fiscal consolidation in others .
think of the appeal of movies like thelma and louise , or of a working girl in which a leading figure is a gutsy , exploited secretary who is trampled by the snooty ivy league boss nonetheless manages to put an end to her dream ’s job , dreams guy , and a corner office . whereas news are surfaces that palin has told a group of african americans that she did not have to hire black people , working-class white women often understand their own experiences in terms of racial hostility . to see a working-class white woman be lifted to serve a heartbeat away from an american president resonates powerfully with them . so , when sarah palin is escorted to the media limelight , she is becoming the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , exhausted factory workers , and secretaries . to see a working-class white woman being picked to serve a heartbeat from an american president resonates powerfully with them .
as i emphasize in my new book , codependency between china and america ties them together inextricably . it acknowledged the need to shift from a model that focused mainly on exports – and investment-led manufacturing ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private-sector consumption ( through services ) . that change would give china a much better chance to avoid the dreaded “ middle-income trap ” that ensnares most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believed that a early-stage takeoff growth recipe suffices to achieve developed-country status . american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book , codependency between china and america ties them collectively .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will gather in kiel , germany for the world economic symposium ( ges ) , where they will attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . while such solutions have some merit , they are insufficient to address effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that led to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . the crisis has represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving breakdowns at almost all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions . whether they produce an effective set of proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . at the end of last year , dialogues about central banking ’s future , which has been campaigning against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a counter-cyclical policy approach ; the world monetary authority should be designed to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain the primary objective .
the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power is undermining systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities , while hampering smaller players ’ ability to compete . specifically , as the global economy shifts toward knowledge-based value creation , a few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries are winning large swaths of the world ’s largest , tech boom augmenting their gains . piketty ’s framework emphasizes several drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has spawned a winner-take-all business , in which the most technologically advanced actors have acquired market share through scale economies . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household saving .
many countries lack foreign-currency reserves enough to meet sudden and large-scale capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . prevention , however , must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceed individual countries ’ ability , both — and the international community — to counter such inflows . this phenomenon has been all too apparent during the asian crisis and following the russian sovereign-debt default in august 1998 . indeed , many countries lack foreign-currency reserves enough to meet sudden and large-scale capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies .
like the courtiers surrounding louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing at all . blair believes that britain has ought to join the euro because it wants britain to be , as it puts it , “ at the heart of europe ” in the heart of europe . the only question now in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on the euro will be “ not quite yet , ” “ not before the next elections , ” or simply plain “ no . ” most commentators have tended to assume that , if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is precisely what would happen , because , after all , he is prime minister . it is a decision taken virtually independently of prime minister tony blair and even against his wishes .
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including commitments to truth and evidence , ” has been accompanied by unlimited “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . ” the outcome of trump ’s approach is that america ’s existing problems worsen , and enormous opportunities are missing out . and , though stalled , may the damage that they have already wrought are already wrought reversed ? there has been some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn clearly the white supremacist protesters in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ “ “ unite ” the right ” rally in august , ending the killing of a counterprotester . but what may be stopping the demons already unleashed ?
finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for the average cost of childcare . that might seem broadly beneficial , but it would help only those at a high enough tax brackets to itter tax brackets – mostly middle-income households above $ 75,000 ( median american household incomes amounted to $ 54,462 ) . what is certain is that trump ’s ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike all other us presidential candidates since richard nixon ’s administration , he has refused to loosen his income-tax record . what is certain is that trump ’s ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible .
since its inception in 2008 , connectivity has spawned tens of thousands of jobs , and is now proactive in 24 countries . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not only finding ways to support one another and contribute to its communities ; they are solving the root causes of migration on both sides of the continent and off the continent . and in south africa , marlon parker work , co-founder of the social innovation academy and incubator rlabs , has created a virtual currency , called zlato , in order to encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . with young people attending courses , access laptops , or book rooms at rlabs cafes , they earn zlato encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . and , in south africa , marlon parker work , co-founder of the social innovation academy and incubator rlabs , has created a virtual currency called zlato encourage active participation in skills-training workshops .
but then scotland would ask its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , putting the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup , and perhaps even dissolution . the choice is between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether . british leaders need to recognize that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs a national debate to rank voters ’ preferences . avoiding that scenario means sacrificing autonomy over commercial policy for the sake of the sake of the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . but this would upset hardline brexiteers and might split the conservative party , theresa may ’s risk theresa may ’s reluctant to take .
encouraging them to do more , and giving them grounds to do more , is surely a worthwhile task for india ’s government , as well as the annual conclave ’s overt target . at the same time , the country has received $ 70 billion in remittances last year – more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . but the us should not get away : overseas indians continue to invest a lower share of its resources in india than overseas china does in afghanistan . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect of the pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the many parallel seminaries driving state governments to attract expatriate investment . the importance of diaspora finance – from working-class indians ’ remittances to the millions poured into high-tech businesses in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors – can not be minimized , particularly during the global financial crisis .
in response to concerns among customers , employees and shareholders alike , apple has improved working conditions , agreeing to regular reviews by an independent observer . companies that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulties in recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or increased climate-change-related costs . apple ’s mark , for example , has been recently shaken by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . there are now mobile phone apps that evaluate and share major transnational companies ’ supply chains for customers , investors , and public officials . companies that scores poorly risk losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or regulatory action .
the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his latest high-profile published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi cao ) , argued that this demographic shift explains much of the increase in saving rates , because chinese substituted capital investment for investment in their children . but income growth and demographics do not explain everything . for starters , the uptrend in saving in china started at around the same time that its one-child policy was implemented in 1979 . that prevented the birth rate from rebounding after the cultural revolution of 1966-76 . they also tolerate enterprise or government policies that favor high saving .
asked later about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ” most historians would agree that franklin d. roosevelt ’s achievement as a leader rested more on his emotional than on his analytical iq . while the concept is modern , the idea is not new . most historians would agree that franklin d. roosevelt ’s achievement as a leader rested more on his emotional than on his analytical iq . in the 1830s , the former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crusty old veteran of the american civil war , had been brought to a meeting with franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate but not a distinguished student .
since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by a near-constant civil war based on north-south cultural and religious divides . an artificial fusion of mainly arab , muslim north sudan , and an african south , where christianity and traditional animist beliefs are predominant , has been a resounding failure . a separate but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei will allow voters to choose whether or not they want to join the north or the south . since sudan won its independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by a near-constant north-south cultural civil war and religious divide . matters have been subsequently complicated by separate conflict – this time among muslims – over resources in western darfur .
being responsive to member countries ’ concerns and priorities was both right and normal ; taking orders from them was not . nonetheless , my general experience at the undp and the world bank has suggested that staff and governance can and do this in keeping with article 100 . usually , they have been formulated in an acceptable manner , asking me to “ look into ” a particular issue . when i was the administrator of the undp , i had to deal with the constant “ requests ” provided by the government ’s representatives . nonetheless , my collective experience at the undp and the world bank suggested that staff and governance might and should be pursued according to article 100 .
blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost about $ 90 billion over the past decade , three-quarters of them attributable to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost about $ 90 billion over the past decade , three-quarters of them attributable to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . these investors appeal to governments not only to limiting rising temperatures , but also to meeting the paris climate agreement ’s ’s ’s more difficult target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those ignoring climate-change warnings have already taken on a financial hit . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost about $ 90 billion over the past decade , three-quarters of them attributable to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp .
at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the us . at the same time , the entire world has a big stake in what happens next . in short , china is on the brink of large , indispensable , and dangerous transformations that promise to change the country for a better time – or to make everything – including regional stability , much worse . but trouble with america ’s asian allies , particularly japan , might draw the us into a struggle that it overwhelmingly prefers to avoid . in fact , conflict with the united states is unlikely now .
in late november , the lower house of parliament , headed by the majority of the african national people ’s congress ( anc ) party , overwhelmingly sanctioned a new law – the “ protection of the state ’s information bill ” – – whose acceptance would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . now , however , the right to information in south africa is in jeopardy . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information , and in many cases to private business information . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution , nadine gordimer , has likened the bill to the legislation of apartheid . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and the anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer , has likened the bill to the legislation of apartheid .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , but it remains a potent performer , contributing about one-third of overall economic growth worldwide . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china has been calling attention to new growth-enhancing commitments in both advanced and emerging-market economies . at the same time , it is becoming much more sustainable , in line with a shift in its growth model away from investment and exports and toward domestic demand and services . above all , domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels . but china faces severe risks at home .
in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather marginal economic role in latin america to being among the region ’s top investors and trading partners , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising smoothly – a trend that appears unlikely to change anytime soon – china has now set its sights on yet another objective : expanding its political clout in the region and beyond . the question now is whether this will be good for latin america . hong kong – early this century , when china embarked on its “ going out ” policy – focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies – few expected that the country was quick to emerge as the leading economic player in latin america . still , that is precisely what has happened .
in remarks following the press conference , trump has praised trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and a “ absolute leader in a presidential race . ” both are consummate propagandists and performers , and they are up to a few . there is little question , however , about which america ’s candidate , putin , would want to see in the white house . the two men surely deserve one another , and the other two men do not know it . and both are ready – even keen – to bully , harangue , and lying to trump ahead .
in practice , this would entail pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . the latter avenue would require macron to build on a pre-existing but obscure conception of left-wing internationalism . as the nobel laureate economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a greater state to compensate for those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth . the first was to embrace the center right ’s agenda and pursue labor-market , taxation , and investment policies that would “ adapt ” france to the “ capitalist ” of globalization . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route that it originally chose , quickly become the darling of the business-oriented international press .
mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made that case . “ if you live in a state that wishes to mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including the 60-year-old women that ’s ’s ’s ’s fine , ” that ’s ’s ’s ’s fine , ” ” and if you can then figure out how to change a state that you live in ” or modify “ state legislatures and state laws , ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s words . in a vindictive scenario , people will club together in different states based on their preferences for big or little government , public or private service provision of services , and international cooperation or isolationism . “ why look to the federal government to try and correct our local problems ? ” “ why look to the federal government to try and correct our local problems ?
south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from its nuclear industry through the non-renewal of existing licenses and prohibitions on future plant sites . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in its renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new competitive footing in the regional market . whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , as well as 14 % of taiwan ’s gdp , are met with nuclear arms , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from its nuclear industry through the non-renewal of existing licenses and prohibitions on future plant operations . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new competitive footing in the regional market .
because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency and america ’s fed controls america ’s supply side with america as long as china ’s sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own currency supply . a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender control over its money-supply supply and interest rates to america . yet china ’s rulers are right to suspend the decision to float . under hard pressure from america , china ’s leaders agreed in principle to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restraints on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender control over its money-supply and interest rates vis-à-vis america .
as the paris agreement recognizes , many climate scientists believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be overwhelmingly expensive , especially for developing countries and israeli states alike . in fact , even that level may not be low enough . can we turn the tap to zero net emissions before the baby hits a level that takes us well above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ? the good news is that if we somehow stop all of our emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only over a decade , or so , before stabilizing . so we are in a race to the fore .
mind you , western citizens are blessed to live in an age of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through the democratic process of eu foreign and civil wars . but what , precisely , is a fair , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining choices ? i am afraid that this may not be a pretty picture . indeed , no one has a vision of the consequences , both for the uk in the global trading system or the effect on domestic political stability . is this really enough to bring about a breakup of 52 % on a rainy day ?
defense spending amounts to 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom reach 3 % . so one would expect smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense than on larger ones . security and global influence are not the only advantages that come with military spending . but confining discussion about a defense commitment to the percentage of gdp is insufficient , owing to economies of scale on defense spending . the eu today is that america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and defense spending in the us is likely to rise even more in the years to come .
new york – at the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly earlier this month , there was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson had looked back on the immediate postwar era , feeling as though he had been “ present at the creation of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . ” even before the summit had begun , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south korean , and japanese consulting in earnest regarding the need for new alliances to rescue the multilateral system . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns over what us president donald trump would have said , “ do ” or tweet . but at the congo this year , many attendees felt as though they were present at the destruction of that world .
bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel could flare up anytime soon . as events over the last two weeks in egypt demonstrate all too vividly , the arab awakening still prevails only in much of its first act in many countries . in the medium term , the world is mired in tensions and potential crises that america ’s leadership seems indispensable to resolving . even when the us is out of the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another in order to establish a unified opposition , as well as working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals . indeed , democracy remains fragile , at best , throughout north africa ; and in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have all started to feel ripple effects from a tidal wave sweeping the region .
meanwhile , germany ’s diplomacy is actively re-engineering the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe . in today ’s germany , because no one with a decisive force in business , finance , or government experienced war , the european project can no longer be viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future . the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , following the subprime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . these new leaders envision europe only as a commercial regime . there would be no common european plan to deal with the crisis and no call for public money .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . such flaws are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic .
such a pact – called for a “ united economic space ” – is now entered into force by russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , ironically , the treaty will only entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal business practices , rather than enhancing trade or prosperity . when the treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither trade nor freedom is at stake . when the treaty of the treaty of free-trade negotiations is dire ?
the ascent of nahda ( the renaissance ) , the leading islamist ennahda party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among the newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill a post-revolutionary political vacuum . since january , nahda has opened more than 200 offices , most of whom have been registered since january . scores of volunteers are deployed in an electoral campaigning at grassroots levels , door-to-door levels . the party ’s imposing headquarters in the tunis suburbs symbolize its standing as the country ’s most potent political operations by far . whereas opponents ominously recall the participation of party cadres in the deadly tourist bombings in 1991 , nahda has gone to some lengths to appease his critics .
in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid and universally embraced currency to bridge the funding gap if their imports exceeded their exports . but , since the late 1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have been accumulating very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and a desire to avoid a repeat of the inflationary currency attacks that sparked the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the problem is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer mainly “ foreign-currency ” “ foreign-currency reserves ” in a traditional sense . the obvious candidate for this reserve-currency fund was us treasury bills . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was us treasury bills .
good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s ’s ’s ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . it is extremely difficult for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary offers a stark example .
davos – the world bank has forcefully stressed the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion and breaking the cycle of poverty . the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) argues that rising food prices could result in increased global conflicts . countries and organizations are already mobilizing for this purpose . the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) argues that rising food prices could result in increased global conflicts . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a shared plan of action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global food partnership .
to be sure , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan requires positive returns to break even , and when the bulk of its wealth yields negative nominal returns , such outcomes become increasingly elusive . and yet negative bond yields are also occurring in countries and regions where currencies are depreciating and are likely to depreciate further , including germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan . many long-term investors , such as insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative because they are obliged to hold safer bonds . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest mostly in bonds that are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets . so , why are investors holding such assets ?
the problem is that , in pursuing such reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . in his first year and a half in office , macron has begun to address these problems , and he has succeeded in delivering a budget along the rules of the eu ’s deficit . with polls indicating that some 70 % of french support for the yellow vest movement ’s anti-migrant protesters , macron has been forced to retreat . and so , when he declared that his government would raise the tax on diesel fuel , the middle – and working-class commuters – took to the streets . step by step , his reforms seem consistently to have benefited the wealthy .
many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their influence over the international system by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs , without a clear endgame . as it stands , perhaps the biggest barriers to international cooperation on international cooperation are political . but perspectives that refute this narrative seem to be gaining ground . many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their influence over the international system by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs , without a clear endgame . at the same time , some may argue that the global elite pretend only to pursue socioeconomic change , while in fact maintaining the status quo that benefited them .
first , while low rates might stimulate spending if credit were smooth out , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go out and spend . with rising demand , firms would hire ; all would be well . this is a distinct logic from the one calling for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( to the detriment of investors ) , but it has equally severe vulnerabilities . think , think of the soon-to-retire working-age population . by boosting inflation , the fed would reverse real interest rates seriously negative , thereby coercing households into spending rather than saving .
though the g-8 made a clear promise , there was no plan on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear instructions that no such plan occurred . for the first year , the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , total aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , has risen to a rate of meager 2 % . with those debt cancellation operations largely complete , the data are now revealing a stark truth : development aid to africa and poor countries more generally tends to be stagnant , contrary to all promises . for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers were padded by misleading debt cancellation operations accounting .
and , while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the rise has not been particularly dramatic and remains at reasonable levels . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been inequality . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development , ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new transition report , based in the 2015-2016 transition survey , produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived rise in inequality far exceeds the reality outlined by official data , typically based on household surveys . but that is not what the average citizen sees in the us . yet , on the global level , inequality is decreasing .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve ’s system of governance is one of the world ’s most powerful governmental organizations in its history . that is an alarming outcome , because senior fed officials seem to have slipped back on their pre-2008 path , ignoring concerns over dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when such concerns are voiced by members of america ’s senate banking committee . and , though the fed was partly responsible for the regulatory failures that triggered the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even greater authority and greater responsibility for overseeing the financial system . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s policy position is far more precarious than its leadership appears to have been realized . america ’s central bank has controlled control over us dollar supplies , and currently exerts enormous leverage over interest rates , both for short - and long-term borrowing .
as a result , scientists and engineers face a daunting task during the anthropocene era : to guide us toward environmentally sustainable governance . at this stage , the us remains largely treading on terra incognita . unless a global disaster arises from a meteorite impact , a world war , or a pandemic , mankind will remain a major environmental force for many millennia to come . that will require appropriate human behavior at all levels , and perhaps well involve an internationally accepted , large-scale , geo-engineering project to “ optimize ” climate . more by luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation has not developed .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that have lately emerged from a dictatorship . in all of these cases , a cynic would be semi-right . but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion . first and foremost , the process requires the constitution to make the often complex and painful forms of social policy . constitutional change is for political leaders a welcome distraction from far more change-resistant socioeconomic policy issues .
this is not to say that what china needs are more real-estate investment . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace of growth in seven years , has exceeded market expectations . and it has been driven , in part , by an unforeseen increase in growth in growth in real-estate investment , to less than 6 % . this is undermining corporate profitability , spurring companies to deleverage and reduce investment , and fueling further declines in ppi . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s ’s economic growth reflects trends from the first quarter of this year .
but this does not mean that trump ’s skeptics can simply sit back and wait for him to prove wrong , for the first year that the us reported trade deficits would narrow , even as the true us trade deficit widens . consider the american pharmaceutical firm , which is creating a plant in iran . iranian affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , the us-based intellectual property represented by the drug patent ) , assembles a product in iran , and exports it back to the us . it all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” – prices multinational corporations use to place value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . in terms of value-added tax , the patent makes the largest contribution .
if countries like south africa are ever to flee from republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to combat the global gag rule . and yet , owing to us policy , none of these changes will come easily . solutions begin at home to ensure that developing countries need to start moving further away from conditional aid that restricts health-care providers ’ ability to work according to local laws . recommendations included increasing affordable transport to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing sexual education availability , and developing strategies to lower the stigma of abortion . local ngos , together with accountable global partners , need to find new support to programs that train women about their rights and provide access to safe abortion services .
we want technology firms to play a central role in providing new ideas and disruptive thinking . what makes this fund unique is not the series of new benchmarks it sets . we want firms that already offer refugees online education , internet access , and it hardware to drive educational delivery to displaced and isolated girls and boys . in establishing such a fund , we are ending the formulaic crisis era . we want technology firms to play a central role in providing new ideas and disruptive thinking .
civil society was energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but fell into turmoil . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but was mired in turmoil . but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has started to pull itself together . debate over an association agreement with the european union , together with the east ’s russian-backed insurrection , has stoked tensions over the distinctions that previously played little or no part in people ’s lives . russia ’s intervention has to some extent backfired , boosting support for europe ’s orientation .
the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu ’s banking union , which is under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . against this backdrop , it will challenge them to retain the primacy of global norms and secure the continued buy-in toward basel . regulators are now keenly focused on brexit ’s implications , which will require complex arrangements to manage a new relationship between london and the eurozone . the bank for international settlements ’ new secretary-general , agustín carstens , the former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , as whoever replaces mark carney ( the bank ’s current governor ) next year as chairman of the fsb . it is likely , too , that a new chair of the basel committee itself will soon emerge .
supervision , more transparency on financial markets , an effective early-warning system for financial crises , and improved international political coordination . the crisis made it clear that national supervision of banks operating globally was insufficient . there is a clear need for international regulatory coordination of regulation . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally have been absent . there is a clear need for international regulatory coordination of regulation .
if the us were to implement them against much of the rest of the world , damaging america ’s economy , the us dollar , the stock market , and america ’s leadership would be irreparable . europe may face down us extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily become denominated in euros , renminbi , rupees , and rubles , shun american banks . indeed , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . oil-for-goods trade can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism like instex .
countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . when a sufficient share of creditors approve of a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s gdp did ) , others could be forced to go along . such treaties should also include collective-action clauses , making vulture funds impossible to hold on debt restructuring . but so , too , is the court ’s decision , which evidently assigned little weight to their arguments . the international monetary fund , america ’s council of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all have joined in opposing vulture funds .
knowing what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is the easy part : look at multilateral consultation policy plans and “ just do it . ” but expanding demand and allowing real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough if other countries fail to do their part . indeed , rebalancing the pattern of us growth is the central economic objective of china ’s ’s leadership . oil exporters need to increase fiscal spending further ; japan and europe must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and the us needs to implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings . as america ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress noted , for china these plans aim to “ rebalance ” its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and reforming its exchange-rate system ; and achieving greater flexibility on its exchange-rate regime .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . africa 's experience demonstrates why such an approach is badly needed . but , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-oriented , economists increasingly question gdp ’s usefulness as a gauge of the economy ’s ’s health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . washington , dc , a gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of an economy ’s well-being for more than 80 years .
the notion that he should not take steps to protect his own interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out of obtaining it . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s own pockets should certainly worry americans . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , together with the european union , that should stop squabbling and begin to curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister viktor orbán . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the us remains a positive force around the world . and the west ’s policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland – are not necessarily mistaken .
while it is important to note that this figure is only an estimate , it represents a preliminary but credible indicator of climate finance , based on information delivered by the developed world . if one assumes greater leverage over private-sector investment , the figure would be higher . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that it will honor the commitment . according to the oecd , along with a climate-policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . but larger financial flows are needed , particularly from the private sector .
first among such sources of insecurity is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to meltdown , or will greater multipolarity undercut greater resilience ? and this leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is a set of questions regarding the impact of new technologies . moreover , while inter-communal conflict has been declining , intrastate conflicts fueled by youthful population , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . likewise , will governments and institutions be able to adjust fast enough to harness change , or will they overwhelm it ?
if the bush administration sought to maintain stable , secure , varied , and low-cost oil supplies , it might simply lift embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and allow its oil gush . but america ’s interest in iraqi oil was driven not so much by economics or energy policies . the bush administration has recognized , first and foremost , that iraqi oil represents a critical geopolitical asset . the irony here , however , is that the us has exercised greater control over america ’s oil sector under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , rather than saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future democratic iraq . whoever controls the iraqi oil control act .
a hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equal to 25 % of gdp , while 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than one dollar a day . to be sure , income inequality and social injustices are the concomitant of western-style capitalist culture . but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach . moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . in contrast to indian capitalism , ’s ethical failures elsewhere look particularly benign .
from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to testing welfare programs ) and the top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . thus , the us government has been moving in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the very bottom ( by dramatically increasing transfer programs ) and , more recently , at the very top ( by raising tax rates on the rich ) . thus , cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 , and making the rate schedule more graduated ( on the medicare side ) have been errors from efficient taxation standpoint . from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to tested welfare programs ) and those at the very top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . thus , the us government has been moving in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( by dramatically increasing transfer programs ) and , more recently , at the very top ( by raising tax rates on the wealthy ) .
for many developing countries , high oil and food prices constitute a triple threat : not only are importing countries to pay more for grain , they must pay more to join them , and still do more to deliver them to consumers who may live a long distance from their coasts . so long as developing countries remain so integrated to the global economy – and to avoid taking measures to restrain the impact on international prices on home prices – domestic prices – domestic prices of rice and other “ grains ” are bound to rise markedly when international prices do . rising interest rates can lower aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame rising prices for some goods and services , particularly non-traded goods and services . but , unless taken to intolerable levels , such measures by themselves can not bring inflation down to targeted levels . for example , even if global energy and food prices rise at a more subdued pace than now – for about 20 % a year – and reflect domestic price levels , bringing the overall inflation rate to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere that will almost surely entail a marked economic slowdown and high unemployment .
such a pattern is a formula for an endless conflict and an endless defeat . important points to them are that they have acquired vengeance through inflicting harm on themselves , showing that they are real men , do not buckle under , and survive . yet defeats do not compel new attitudes , policies , or leaders . leaders who brought on failures and groups that did not triumph become heroes for claims that they courageously battled the enemy without being crushed . thus , they are not formally giving up on anything .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . though america in 2017 has been deeply divided , americans remain committed to the central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and regular elections and the preservation of political , religious , and economic liberty . when he leaves office , the us will essentially be what it was when it entered it : the world ’s most powerful democracy . trump is unlikely to attempt to overturn any of them ; and even if he tries , he will fail . america ’s fundamental governance institutions have survived greater challenges than any of which trump may pose .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to secure patient consent even when tissue has already been removed from the patient ’s body . virtually all of us have tissue on the file somewhere else , at least for the first time . in all of us , who should have access to such samples ? today , brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories to study a variety of diseases . for what purposes can be deployed ?
most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies and broadened participation , citizens in democracies need to learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands . at the same time , they need to understand better the nature of contextual intelligence that they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . leadership is broadly distributed across healthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders . with soft power , however , the energies of empowered followers strengthen leaders . potential leaders , in turn , can learn more about the sources and limits of the soft-power capacities of emotional iq , vision , and communication , together with hard-power political and organizational capabilities .
the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a cease-fire agreement . it did so in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for the talks . morocco , too , has also repeatedly obstructed progress toward further talks . that agreement was ostensibly intended to set the stage for a independence referendum in western sahara the following year , a democratic solution . but morocco has prevented it from happening now .
royal has openly claimed mitterand ’s legacy as she seeks legitimacy , whereas sarkozy ’s ’s ’s rejection of chirac ’s ’s ’s legacy has more to do with form than substance . to a large degree , sarkozy may be perceived as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand ’s less . moreover , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gaullist side for sarkozy and françois mitterrand for royal – as much as a rupture . as was true in 2002 , the winner next year will be whomever the electorate dislikes or apprehension less . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choices may well depend more on negative rather than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac was confronted by a odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round .
with obama reluctant – or unable – owing to rising political partisanship at home – taking the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria ; challengers to america ’s primacy took heart in 2014 ; and america ’s allies took the fright . at the same time , chinese officials have become more willing to discuss creating a code of conduct for the south china sea . but china ’s recent shift away from the muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo oil ’s platform from the waters of the contested paracel islands last july to send surveillance ships to the senkaku islands less often . global power needs to be assigned somewhere ; if the us would not fill its leadership role on the international stage , an understudy would have to tread .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women started to enter the us labor market in large numbers . indeed , a typical full-time male worker in the us is lower than it has been in more than four decades . yes , the us has done some things to improve its financial markets . most americans ’ incomes and wealth are well below their level long before the crisis . labor-force participation rate has fallen to levels not seen since women started to enter the us labor market in large numbers .
what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be a key determinant . the republican presidential campaign adds another layer of uncertainty . it is worth recalling the outcome of us president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : kim ’s regime promptly and predictably developed a nuclear bomb . the two leading contenders for the party ’s nomination , donald trump , and ted cruz , both suggest that they would tear up the iran nuclear deal if elected . whether america will continue to lead the world remains unclear .
nevertheless , many remain in detention , and voronin continue to hurl accusations at the opposition and romania for orchestrating coup d’état . at the same time , stability matters , too , because poland ’s borders on romania , the european union ’s member states . restoring stability and a just democratic system to moldova matters , first and foremost , because the moldovans deserve a government that is accountable . president vladimir voronin later granted amnesty to detainees . at the same time , legal processes have been opened against the opposition parties .
the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies they prescribed for arab ancien régimes . were economists focused on the wrong indicators ? were they misled by sham inferences ? on the eve of their downfall , several arab autocrats were in fact lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in embracing the “ right ” economic policies . this , in turn , raises a raft of other questions .
whereas china chose to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after it did , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) to ensure that china has de facto sustained macroeconomic stability over the years . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . the key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets that are unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . as a result of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong ’s residents topped rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the amount may reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently for the age of total war that would have arrived at less than a century after his death . he and his supporters have also taken aim at the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy rests , including the courts , the legislative branch , independent media , and more . trump is not merely seeking to avoid repeating failed policies of the past , as he puts it . but , more than that , he is doing so . for his part , democracy is under direct threat in a country where it should have its deepest cultural and political roots .
whereas official interest rates are just 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , whereas creditworthy businesses in italy can borrow only at punitive rates when at all . so the ecb should do more to unblock the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital inflows rather than hit a unified 9 % ratio ; and where needed , national governments should offer guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . in short , structural reforms alone can not rely on growth-enhancing stimulus in 2012 . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs to support the real economy , too . the eu needs an immediate focus on boosting investment and exports in economies with current-account deficits – for example , france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – while easing consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term , his popular party has privatized most public-sector firms and deregulated many service industries . at the same time , it promises to slash income taxes , place the country ’s ’s firmer social security system on a firmer footing , lowering the costs of shedding labor . aznar ’s agenda , however , is a sensible yet ambitious target . his new government vows to continue eliminating the public deficit and lowering unemployment . his new government vows to continue eliminating the public deficit and lowering unemployment .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every area of business life ; trump in business activity over internet astounds . as recently as january 1995 , there have been about 27,000 online deal-making business addresses . an important new report by america ’s department of commerce , “ the emerging digital economy , ” suggests that the internet is reshaping not only american entrepreneurship , but the global economy . in 1994 , three million people , mostly american , used the internet . in 1994 , three million people , mostly american , used the internet .
there is no robust scientific evidence that gm foods are causing illness , despite receiving far more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . while cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may occur , so far no new superweeds have emerged . ( nature foods can also pose health risks , as was shown recently by studies establishing that a popular type of cinnamon can cause liver damage . ) regulations to protect the environment and consumers ’ health must endure . we should be glad to see that – and perhaps the regulations that were introduced in response to the concerns expressed by environmental organizations – played a role in this outcome .
unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making tough choices until risks actually materialize . we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has materialized , and governments remain vigilant . the virus has the potential to be mere a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to the hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must be established to detect the broad classes of enemies . the virus protections and advances in the development of the virus represent an uneven arms race . let us hope that the us is fortunate for some time to come , at least longer .
indeed , a modest 3 % increase in the developed-country labor force would provide a bigger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . such migrant workers ’ tax rates would help developed countries fund services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . such impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis , conducted by a team of top economists tasked by my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessing potential population-related targets to identify the best global investment . moreover , each dollar invested in such an initiative would generate nearly $ 50 in returns , making it exceptionally efficient to use scarce resources . this approach has tremendous potential benefits .
wellington , paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one part of the world ’s most widely used drugs . since then , several cases of epidemiological studies have reported the association between childhood asthma and paracetamol exposure to paracetamol in childhood and adulthood . these studies have led to the suggestion that using paracetamol might represent an important risk factor in the rise of childhood asthma . it is the preferred medications to reliol fever and pain , owing to its safety profile , but ten years ago the hypothesis suggested that paracetamol use may increase risk in childhood asthma . wellington is the preferred medication for relieving fever and pain , owing to its safety profile , but ten years ago the hypothesis suggested that the use of paracetamol could raise the risk of asthma .
mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that a space program for the region is critical to raise careers profile in science and engineering a part of the world where the most educated are still moving toward finance or managerial management . “ the answer , ” he argues , is partly that by promoting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . in a country that is deeply divided economically , “ what on earth is the benefit of the world ’s poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” asks harold annegarn , a professor at the university of physics and astronomy at the university of western kentucky . today , the country believes that it has around 60 working astronomers , more than half of all astronomers working in africa .
mega-finance , mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises have been the logical result . as a result , unprecedented new debt has been generated to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profiting enough to pay off the future . in such a system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads – particularly in the post-2008 reality , which has confirmed total control over societies by mega-firms and mega-banks . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all the other ingredients of today ’s discontent with capitalism have become inescapable . as a result , unprecedented new debt has been created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profiting enough to repay the future .
a few years ago , forecasters had been confident that global imbalances would reemerge once the crisis passed . that now appears unlikely : neither the us nor china is returning to its pre-crisis pattern of growth or spending . for their part , emerging markets have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth . america ’s trade position will be strengthened by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and productivity increases that auger further re-tooling manufacturing production . nor are earlier trade balances about to re-emerge .
despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats ( cdu ) , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority , sufficient to amend the constitution . in fact , orbán ’s government has been a subject of numerous investigations by europe ’s anti-fraud office . during the electoral campaign , orbán ’s government has saturated the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . still , in what remains of hungary ’s ’s free press , one may sometimes find a credible message alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are piloting eu funds for the benefit of themselves , their families , and their business associates . both governments have tumbled over nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted the media .
following these debates , america ’s national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that permit government stem-cell r & d funding but , in their current form , prohibit federally-funded investigators from forming new stem cell lines . we know that a wide variety of poorly understood factors cause embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to differentiate each potential cell varieties . that limitation requires that stem cell lines must come only from the privately-funded or commercial sources that follow from those mandated by guidelines . i believe that restricting the use of government funds to create stem cells , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps . this loss of capacity to differentiate might come from the specific mode in which stem cells are derived , the conditions that surround their growth and other variables in handling them .
for example , a plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank ’s bankruptcy , leaving it to the bank ’s own managers ’ discretion . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often wait too long before declaring bankruptcy , so lenders might step in to do some of the pushing , potentially even forcing a bankrupt firm . yet , far from accepting such contributions , the plan would mostly cut us regulators out of the process . taking away this tool might have severe adverse effects . whereas bank regulators have instruments to pressure the banks similarly , their most efficient is the power to initiate a bankruptcy when the economy is best .
the copenhagen consensus center asked gürcan gülen , a senior energy economist at the center of energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin university , to examine the “ state of sciences ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of green jobs . unfortunately , this does not measure up to economic reality . instead , we are told about the purported economic payoffs , first and foremost , about the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” investment in alternative energy technologies , like solar and wind , is no longer peddled on environmental grounds . investment in alternative energy technologies , like solar and wind , is no longer peddled on environmental grounds .
after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across all industries is an indispensable driver of success . genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to stimulate two struggling governments and overcome their own conservatism . it is absolutely crucial that this text go hand in hand with a new method , tailored to the contemporary world in which we live – a world in which politics can no longer be conducted in muffled ministerial debates or via convoluted communiqués . it is , however , regrettable that the treaty of 28 articles is very vague . in today ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest .
that means focusing on the promotion of market economies and a stable government , rather than subsidizing failure and failed states . while there is a lot that the us can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still enjoy the benefits of international aid . but the international community needs to do more than provide food and medicines to victims of famine and droughts . somaliland and ethiopia , for example , are collaborating to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the world ’s poorest and least developed parts of the world . what is needed is pro-growth investments that will help provide jobs for our peoples and products and resources worldwide .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . trento , the most significant result of europe ’s recent parliamentary election is neither that the conservatives and the social democrats have lost the seats to the liberals and greens , nor that far-right nationalists have acquired less than anticipated . it is that citizens have voted in much larger numbers than anyone expected .
in a sense , the killings at srebrenica were also tainted by memories of world war ii . even though the mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual . nevertheless , laudable efforts to prevent such a thing from recurring have had unfortunate consequences . for , in our zeal to learn lessons from history , we are often taught the wrong ones , or distort history toward dubious ends . we know that hitler had tried to crush every last jewish person , a woman and a child .
yet it is also citizens ’ obligation to preserve the formal , political meaning of citizenship as state intervention broadens to make the case for everyone . this is a paradox intrinsic to democracy , and it is the responsibility of policymakers to address the tensions that it embodies . democratic principles call to organize society in such a way that both values can be realized to the greatest possible scale . but the path to particularistic action that does not undermine all citizens ’ liberty and equality is narrow . this may limit political freedom in the name of greater equality .
if america ’s growth rate in the decades ahead remains what it has been over the last thirty years , the answer is straightforward and frightening . a exterior imbalance would be unwarranted , indeed , unsustainable . households would behave in an almost irresponsible manner . do such figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are they ordinary signs of a boom ? stock market prices , for example , would be far too high .
indeed , france is in fact superior to most of its wealthy country ’s rivals and , unlike germany , the united kingdom , or the us , have retained the same global market share in the industrial sector that it experienced in the early 1970 ’s . baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not as compelling as he believes . moreover , according to a better measure of comptetitiveness , foreign investment , france is doing very well . but deindustrialization is common to any advanced country in the world as a whole . baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not as persuasive as he believes .
if italy and the eu failed to understand the need to work with non-european countries to compel them to feel ready and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc , and so close to declaration a universal moratorium on death sanctions , would fail . that lesson is that europe has more friends than its enemies . a second lesson that i have learned is also useful to the eu , which finds itself in a world in which the new powers emerge , and where all manila actors to algiers , from doha to libreville , must cope with the challenges of globalization and inter-dependence on a daily basis . these friends deserve respect and attention ; they have a stake in this approach ; indeed , they must be held back by them . i know that this is not exactly a new lesson ; it is what i have in mind when i think of efficient multilateralism .
of course , he has not offered any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants , who have rescued the lives of strangers , even though such cases have been reported . in his campaign speeches , trump has made use of the tragic killing of k-steinle steinle by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . that ’s a good thing , but it is also having a darker side to the us . the problem is that empathy for american workers is in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china , who would be even worse off in terms of job insecurity than their american counterparts are . empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize .
this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely , by using its bully pulpit to warn of risk created by large-country policy . small countries are subject to market discipline , as any latvian would tell you . or it might be that national policymakers do n’t trust the imf , given its fundamentally missed role in the global financial crisis . if so , the fund needs to win back its trust . financial markets and global institutions need a global macro-prudential regulator , not only the loosely organized college of supervisors .
this is friedrich hayek 's famous argument against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize price levels . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should drop except in a few niche markets . businessmen do not need low inflation in order to expand their output . provided there is little downward pressure on money wages from increased competition to work , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . businessmen do not need low inflation to expand their output .
these divergences help to explain why many new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of n-11 , including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) , and fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . in other words , while its population is slightly bigger than that of china or india , its economy is roughly half that of china ’s ’s ’s , but larger , than japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s , ’s , and more than twice that of india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s . eight years later , the fog ’s economies still have a chance to account for about 2-3 % of world gdp in the future . i failed to devise such groupings , but i came together to produce a bbc radio documentary on the mint country ’s mint lands in 2014 . eight years later , the fog ’s economies still have a chance to account for about 2-3 % of world gdp in the future .
and , because us president donald trump has treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration has also failed to take strong action . us intelligence agencies have alerted president barack obama to russia ’s tactic , warning putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama has been reluctant to call russia publicly , or to engage in heavy-handed actions for fear that russia will escalate by invading electoral machinery or voting rolls , and he is jeopardizing hillary clinton ’s expected victory . following the election , obama walked both public and exiled russian spies and shuttered some diplomatic establishments , but america ’s response weakness has undercut any deterrent effect . the brilliance of russia ’s information-warfare innovations has been to combine existing technologies with a level of deniability that remains just below the overt attack threshold .
cambridge – earlier this year , the united states ’ presidential election campaign in the united states is arguably unique . donald trump has been rocked the way the campaign is running out , how nominee communicates with voters and the republican party ’s ’s ’s platform , with many of its positions deviating from gop tradition . of course , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions of risks is now rendered meaningless in just a couple of hours . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line . he is changing his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them .
this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . and it appears likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using the leaks of sensitive papers and funding right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , who would favor the kremlin . moreover , ukraine ’s crisis is far from being resolved : the minsk ceasefire agreements are not being respected ; and armed conflict may well escalate anytime soon . then there is russia ’s role in syria . russia has withdrawn from a number of nuclear-related treaties , and the kremlin recently installed iskander rockets that could transport medium-range nuclear facilities , in kaliningrad , near polish border .
why , then , should the us attempt to undermine europe rather than seek closer cooperation to protecting its own economic and geopolitical interests ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking for the fact that china ’s rapid emergence as america ’s strategic rival is the leading national-security question . but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most dependable ally ? why , then , should the us attempt to undermine europe , rather than seek closer cooperation to safeguard its own economic and geopolitical interests ? trump ’s approach is especially striking for the fact that china ’s rapid emergence as america ’s main national-security issue .
shaping power builds correlations and invests in institutions that enable it to work well with others and build and mobilize “ coalitions of like-minded states . ” as gauck has proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continued adaptation ” of that order . the report – the product of a few months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’s current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , ” freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order that rests on universal norms . to achieve this goal , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to resolve problems and resolve conflicts affecting all or portions of the international community . traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic heft , and military might – coupled with resource availability and technological proficiency remain important ; but they are often insufficient to confer real clout in international politics .
even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister , and an outspoken critic of pis rule , has concluded : “ i believe that trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s speech was very well accomplished . ” with his performance , trump has succeeded in drawing enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not only from the pis-curcurated crowds , owing in part to his public greeting of opposition leader lech wałęsa , who has been booted by pis supporters and remains a constant target for jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . he has not been a single negative word about the european union , germany , or france . he has made strong allusions to poland ’s history , and has been very flattering to the us as poles . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister , and an outspoken critic of pis rule , has concluded : “ i believe that trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s speech was very well accomplished . ”
on the contrary , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility – and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . add to that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and a massive trade surplus – seems highly unlikely . but this does not mean that there are no risks at all . the key will be to get markets and policymakers along the same page . given that all of this activity is taking place in the offshore renminbi market – which is small in scale and has only limited links to mainland china ’s financial system – the outcome of china ’s hesitancy about financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility remains controllable .
if your behavior is good – ie , you do n’t drink , beating your wife , and , of course , giving money to the church – you are fine . in a church boasting of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” looks startling . even young men study for priesthood receive very weak philosophical training , and this is done by purposefully . many polish bishops almost openly proclaim to their flock : you are destined to listen , not to think or argue . the belief , then , is a matter of heart ; it is a matter of heart .
for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proven itself to be the leading guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its judicial reform . as in all democracies , where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular occupation , including journalists , receive no form of immunity from these types of severe criminal indictments . of the country , ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over the government . freedom of expression , and press coverage , is guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and the statute . furthermore , one should note that more than 7,000 newspapers and journals are published in turkey , with an overall daily circulation of almost five million copies .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . but those countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to assume its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and according to the rules set for all . the us and others will need to push back in order to ensure that china does not act on such a temptation . nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for the ruling party , which can no longer point to a rapidly rising standard of living . but the larger policy choices that the us and others will need will be made in china to make .
but contagion rates depend on thinking patterns that make it difficult to judge . great speculative bubbles are rare occurrences of events . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by a confluence of interpersonal contagion . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by a form of interpersonal contagion . a bubble forms when contagion rates goes up for ideas supporting a bubble .
the past half-century has demonstrated that while development is possible , it is not inevitable . the great communist experiment is practically over ( to save for a handful of holdouts , for example , cuba and north korea ) . the last half-century has demonstrated that while development is possible , it is not inevitable . the great communist experiment is practically over ( to save a handful of holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . socialism had its day in court and was found wanting .
there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s microtargeting operation in america ’s 2016 presidential election played a decisive role in the key states that he needed to win an electoral college . microtargeting has proved most potent not to win over undecided voters , but at the dissuading people from voting fully . second , with intra-eu intra-eu migration , now nearly 15 million europeans are residing in eu countries other than their own . as populists know well , they are notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to difficulties registering in host countries , paucity of polling stations , and overly elaborate absentee-voting processes . micro-targeting has proved most potent not to win over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting completely .
though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the us dollar since world war ii , often providing better stores of value that are less prone to inflation , none has made permanent inroads on the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to erect claims against china – at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . it is also perhaps no accident that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established , and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination . indeed , over three centuries of globalization , only three “ currencies ” have dominated each other : the gold standard , the british pound , and the american dollar . even if the chinese authorities did manage to reach full convertibility and tradability to the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would in fact become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not easily established .
in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that stood at close to 4 % of gdp – perhaps not high by today , but higher than the eu average at that time . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries are running deficits that are larger than germany ’s ten years ago . the turning point in germany ’s public-finance position has been attributable mainly to spending cuts . the one area where the government has clearly been in charge is public finance . in considering which the lessons of germany ’s ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what government can and what remains the responsibility of business , workers , and society at large .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we must test it in the real world , using massive real-time data volumes . to see how things work in reality , we must construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try new ways to do things ( to be blunt , to act like guinea ) . this involves moving beyond a closed , question-and-answer process typical of the laboratory , and applying our ideas in society , earlier , and more frequently than ever before . an example of such a living laboratory is the “ open data city , ” ” which i started with the city of trento in italy , alongside telecoms italia , telefónica , research university fondazione bruno kessler , the institute for data-driven design , and local companies . this involves moving beyond a gated , question-and-answer process typical of the laboratory and applying our ideas in societies , earlier , and more frequently than ever before .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but how europe ’s policy toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . because the eu lacks an army or a central covert service , it must use economic policies to achieve its geopolitical aims .
trade-offs also pervade environmental politics : cutting off more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources available to tackle other issues . to fix the roof , we may need to accept the less extravagant summer holiday . canberra – the trade-offs that are an intrinsic part of life – is an intrinsic part of the world . we all recognize this from our private budgets , and we know it . when we pick a cheaper wine , we can splurge on dessert .
london – british elections , convened by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s politics and its relationship with europe , but not necessarily in the way that a vastly elevated majority for may ’s conservative party might seem to imply . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics are expecting to inflict on britain ’s ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s electoral announcement : crush saboteurs . but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately result in an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow , after destroying all opposition in western europe . britain ’s ’s pro-european progressive forces might still snatch ’s victory from the jaws of defeat on three related grounds . first , by bringing ahead of the british election , may ’s deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union was effectively extended out of may 2022 .
elsewhere , of course , this type of turmoil has a democratic safety net valves . from east to west , politics appears to operate in ways that are diplomatic , suboptimal . no wonder an impressive premier thought to favor some form of political loosening . it is more than odd to argue that the rest of the world has to cope with a built-in advantage over china ’s exporters , owing to its authoritarian political system that can not cope with any change . then again , perhaps we are fortunate that things are n’t worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union is upward mobility . but some recent electoral results suggest that they are more afraid of losing a nation . the process of integration was designed to make it easier and more appealing for europeans to move from one country to another . according to this vision , the eu had the nation to lose and the continent to gain . ever since the single european act of 1986 , the continent has been the single labor market , at least in theory .
but rising animosity among eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have more say . with no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and respond to voters ’ changing priorities . one option would be greater federalism ; it would be the only option . common political institutions , accountable to voters throughout europe , would provide a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb , helping cage german power .
during the global financial crisis , the g20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like fiscal-policy reaction and the international monetary fund ’s role . at the same time , by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it placed some pressure on governments concerning what can not be done . more recently , though , as the g-20 sought to reconcile divergent national economic interests and recovery strategies , it had been far less successful relative to its opening meetings in washington and london in 2009 . in these respects , the g20 was clearly a step forward . bogotá , lima , international economic coordination is just as necessary as it is elusive .
cambridge – back in august , the us business roundtable , which includes america ’s chief executive officers ’s chief executive officers , with a combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion , updated his longstanding proclamation on corporate purpose . and statements ’s principal author , in his apparent exhilaration , are reported to have said that he felt like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . in fact , shareholders have come at the behest of ceos ’ new list . it ’s not only about shareholders , ceos say ; their firms must be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , communities , and the environment . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
lithium , the mood stabilizer , and a neuro-protective agent , has the characteristics that we seek , though its toxicity make it less than ideal . still , one problem with many contemporary medications is that , even with treatment , the recurrence of major depression comes at a very high level – around 70-80 % – at the same time . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also lead to structural changes in our brains – are not being fully arrested , making a new generation of anti-depressant medications urgent . for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which is stifled by acute and chronic stress , has been elevated by a number of antidepressant therapies . if so , new antidepressants would need to target what appears to be a progressive neurodegenerative variation in our brains that we infer take on , because recurrence of depression is so high under currently available therapies .
chua would reply that achieving a high level of achievement brings great satisfaction , and that the only way to do so is through hard work . that ’s also the view taken by betty ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s paper : “ parents like amy chua , ” are a reason why asian-americans like me are in a state of therapy . stanley investigation , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide that is especially common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes that family pressure on family pressure is a major factor , and that he has the potential to do so . stanley sue , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , studied suicide that is especially common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) .
in some cases , they are individuals such as venezuelan president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s ex-prime minister , silvio berlusconi . the list tells us two things . one is that a startling number of populist leaders have managed to reach themselves in power in the last few years . most of them are entering the political scene from france but govern to form a highly personalized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepper , and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper , or prime minister robert fico , and his direction in slovakia . many other names could be added to the list .
after much soul-searching , i voted for a bill , albeit without the acute sense that i was striking a blow to freedom . thus , one of the “ unintended consequences ” of a bill might be to add welcome recruits to the ranks of the married , even though those recruits are of a historically unusual kind . there is a clear status that benefits to the minority ; no obvious harm is done to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are unfathomable . fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry ; and more children are born out of wedlock . fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , while more and more children are born from wedlock .
during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama turned out to be a talented communicator . during his 2008 presidential election campaign , obama turned out to be a talented communicator . during his 2008 presidential election campaign , ronald reagan turned out to be a talented communicator . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government representatives ’ salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo the raise himself . ronald reagan had been a master of the well chosen anecdote .
at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already be lost . with the g-7 leaders having committed , in a recent joint declaration to address “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , the time has come for a more inclusive g-20 , and china – as it chairs a group for the first time – to take action to address amr . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of its nationality , or their country ’s level of development . indeed , by 2050 , ten million people could die as a result of amr , up from around 700,000 today , with china and india accounting for about one million sufferers . with the g-7 leaders having committed , in a recent joint declaration to address “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for a more inclusive g-20 – and china , as it chairs the group for the first time , to take action to next .
sydney – appointing five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a stark reminder that the ascension of china ’s next generation of leaders to assume power in 2012 may prove to be the most consequential development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping launched in 1978 . all five appointees were born following the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . forgetting that history may doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or for worse , it might also ease the constraints and set its leaders free . all five appointees were born following the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . all five appointees were born after the people ’s founding in 1949 .
in this setting of potential outcomes , one point stands out : europe ’s uncertainty about its role in the future global system . finally , there is the scenario of chaos . a cyber superbug , for example , destroys the networks upon which our way of life has come to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and ecological breakdown . in the end , the scenario of chaos is looming . first , eu leaders must determine how to resolve the euro ’s crisis .
but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , together with negative interest rates , caused financial institutions ’ capital prices to plummet , leading to further pro-cyclical value destruction through price deflation , rising illiquidity , and overcrowded exits . if not , why should asia ’s net lenders , particularly china , continue to be able to continue funding speculation against itself ? the american dollar is a safe-haven haven currency , but the savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort . past experience taught china ’s real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is via painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluations . the question now is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability through the deal resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which five major economies agreed to depreciate america ’s dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark .
and a good traffic deal – with new car car cars smuggled through tunnels beneath the “ philadelphi track ” line that runs along the egyptian border . houses are riddled with bullet holes . we have seen buildings – not only hamas ’s ex-headquarters , still stuck in rubble . but real life , too , is traumatic , and its limits are limited , at best . there is no electricity for up to eight hours per day , and no electricity can be reached .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for ten years . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and as a result may fail to confront the latest economic menace – global deflation . but , unlike backward-looking military-led strategies , flawed monetary policies are producing unavoidable damage , not simply worrisome , risks . many central bankers are like the proverbial general who plans to fight the last war . as a result , china and hong kong have seen prices plummet all the day .
the world must steadfastly resist another ruinous american military adventure . this is clearly on america ’s agenda , particularly the neoconservative doyen , john bolton , back in the white house as the national security adviser . extraterritorial sanctions are the second way america might be able to kill the jcpoa . extraterritorial sanctions are the second way america might be able to kill the jcpoa . even if america is now abating itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means to block the implementation of an agreement between iran and the outside world .
critics of america ’s policy point out that even if the us thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia and around the rest of the world , one way or another . presumably , it was in response to this impasse that china pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . the magnitude of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – is a fact of little prospect for trump . the critics of america ’s policy point out that , even if the us thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia and around the world , one way or another . channeling that influence through a newly-created international organization is more likely to temper the raw power grabs .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs , without really saying something at all . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and losses – a worldview exemplified in his statements that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . trump is a businessman , not a statesmanlike statesman . his muddled statements offer little insight into what type of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that , when his approach becomes clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs .
in 2009 , entrepreneurship accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in america , whose firms are by far the largest r & d in terms of absolute purchasing power parity , spending more than twice that of japanese firms . and american multinationals still locate about 84 % of their r & d activities in the us , often in innovation clusters around research universities . globally , multinational companies are the largest state-owned sector , r & d investors in the us and other oecd countries . but business investment as a share of gdp has changed very little in america over the past decade , while it has risen rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . and american multinationals still locate about 84 % of their r & d activities in the us , often in innovation clusters around research universities .
another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that china ’s urban cities , big and small , lack of sign of meaningful urban poverty or slums . beijing – as measured by the percentage of people living in its cities – currently stands at around 48 % , according to official statistics . but it remains unsatisfactory , because most other countries on a similar stage of development have experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . given that the share of urban dwellers there was only 18 % just 30 years ago , this is remarkable progress . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at around 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force whose incomes come primarily from nonfarm activities .
a loose electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine and the hapless episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the almost combustible character of relations between islam and the west . today , iraq may well be on the brink of a civil war between shiites and sunnis . all of these developments are paving the way for new interpretations . implementing democracy , with or without regime change , has been the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . iran , under a new and more radical president , has moved the irresistibly toward possessing nuclear capabilities .
this has made it easier for lula mainly to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , who has , like recently , backed chávez following march 2008 , following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador ’s forces that killed the farc commander raul reyes . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula have no intention of letting chávez lead the way . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout , because things have begun to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl . last january , lula visited israel with a string of prominent brazilian entrepreneurs and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . calderón ’s emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout , because things have started to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl .
what is not known is how many more deeds this sad political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how should – come to an end . before our eyes , a tragedy in several acts is unfolding , in which both the players and their purposes are abundantly clear . the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped europe and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine enter into a customs union with russia , in exchange for a storel of cash , and cheap oil and natural gas . the eu chose to have ukraine enter into a customs union with russia , in exchange for a storel of cash and cheap oil and natural gas .
but there is a bigger question lurking behind the gge : can norms really limit state behavior ? most experts agree that a treaty on the global treaty of cyberspace currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals at the un ) . though the numbers have risen from the original 15 to 25 , most countries do not share a vote . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also involve codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and broadly shared expectations about proper behavior among a group ( which creates a set of shared laws ) . in scope , such constraints can vary from world to plurilateral .
monetary policy , however , is a far more awkward , indirect , and imprecise way of selecting winners and losers than fiscal policies . so far , such considerations should guide the choice of what follows the european stability pact . think about the divergent effects of interest rates on debtors versus creditors . independent central banks may occasionally backfire for politicians , but at least they could be used as scapegoats when necessary-a role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool . to be sure , there are some redistributive effects on monetary policy as well .
if commercial banks were allowed to base their lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would grow more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressures , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . unlike america , china was not suffering from a liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . indeed , as a result , low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than corporate demand , fueled explosive credit expansion in the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target . indeed , china ’s housing prices have been skyrocketing in recent months . the government has been far too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and has been overtaken by fears about the adverse impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , has been too cautious in coping with bubbles when re-appear .
erdogan believes that by exercising turkey ’s capacity for mediation , he will recover the burdens of his ottoman forbears as guarantors of peace and security in the mashreq . now a constitutional reform supposedly designed to promote turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as guardian of the secular state and cement government control of the judiciary . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made the arabic obligatory in schools . at the same time , erdogan ’s islamic revolution has broadened to the educational system with the establishment of a markedly religious curriculum . it is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision .
thus , european integration had to be shaped by actual policies and institutions , rather than by decrees . change for the better could emerge simply from practical initiatives , rather than sunday speeches . he remained skeptical about notions of irreversible progress . so he and giscard created the council of europe ( composed of the heads of state of europe ’s governments ) that are now a major player in europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s institutional set-up . it was argued that european integration had to be shaped by actual policies and institutions , rather than by decree .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will be ousted soon could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize once a time for renegotiating uk-eu relations again from a new one , very soft , on april 12 , until the end of the year or beyond . for britain , prospects are suddenly far clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 .
yet it also represents a major setback and challenge to the institutional , political , and even psychological nature . following the iranian “ no ” , ” ” can the union really be found in nato ’s conception of a “ coalition of the willing ” ? can the most resolute pro-integration europeans leave the pack without being paralyzed by an reluctant coalition ? to be sure , the iranian “ no ” is not the eu ’s equivalent of what the afghan quagmire is representing for nato . it no longer dreams of becoming europe ’s “ united states , ” ” ” ” ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of the united nations european ” left too ambivalent , if not intentionally ambiguous , to be effective .
the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world , may be diminished dramatically through sustained , concerted action . the us can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon , because it is as much a network and an idea as it is an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources . indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of the scourges of that era . the struggle against the islamic state is not a form of conventional war , but nor is it an alternative to it . what is also required is a dose of realism .
mexico ’s own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance , as has the determination to hang on to and even widen reform of mr. zed’s predecessor , president salinas . failing that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . small and medium-size firms need to become a part of mexican capitalism . but a currency board will also help initiate financial intermediation in favor of small and medium-size firms who had been starved of capital through recurrent crises and bad credit . small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism .
it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . thus , fighting al qaeda is not a war on its own . it is in part of self-defense , in part , a assertion of the rule of law under challenging circumstances , and , in part , a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration . such help will not yield immediate results , but awareness of the medium-term – meaning that readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – is also a hallmark of the liberal order . people who are suspended between a lost past and a future have yet to gain the need for help .
fear of yet another islamist takeover is a second key argument against overthrowing assad , but the longer he remains in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground . these are the groups criticized by the obama administration and others for their failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be perceived as a viable alternative to the current regime . groups like the syrian national council are loose association of individuals and groups , many outside of syria . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups within syria that are equally varied and divided . it is among these groups that radical islamists have acquired a foothold .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by capturing the hearts and minds of regulators , as well as by politicians on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow private-sector elite , mostly on wall street , almost all of the upside in the housing boom . these people were not caused by the crisis ; nor did these people . but they are also paying for it . the downside has been shoved across the rest of society , notably the relatively uneducated and underserved that now lost homes , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or all the above . but this has not been the case for over-regulating and over-adjusting .
the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has generated large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small and medium-size firms . at the same time , a political crisis hampers the government ’s pursuit of difficult reforms . unemployment stands at around 11 % , with record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . french leaders have shown a inability to communicate effectively or apply past experiences in analyzing current threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles concerning minor controversies .
mumbai – as india ’s gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is at last in retreat . to this end , much remains to be done . escaping abject destitution , albeit an important milestone , is not the same thing as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security . yet it is high time for india to step up its aspirations . in 2012 , – two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening its economy – the official poverty rate peaked at 22 % , less than half that in 1994 .
yet , far from making room for diplomacy , trump ’s trade adviser sebastian gorka recently told the associated press that , “ the idea that us secretary of state tillerson will discuss military issues is simply nonsensical . ” once the march toward war began , there was little space left for diplomacy . south korean political leaders must also avoid being swept by this intensifying war rhetoric . unless this changes soon , the us may , as then-british prime minister david lloyd georgians have wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle ] yet again . ” but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat have significant clout over military issues ?
alemán , too , faces a rebellion in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular within the party ’s liberal wing . though a three-way race is pure speculation at this point , it ’s ’s clear that he is offering ortega the best of all the electoral world . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a daunting dilemma : is it preferable to align with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán , or promote a new brand of democratic power and risk aiding ortega ’s victory ? if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushes him into forming another political party , ortega ’s chances of winning the presidency sharply . it is ’s so enticing that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his political interests .
but , whereas for keynes , the key has been to preserve the sum of government spending and private investment stable ; for friedman , the key has been to keep the money supply going -- the level of purchasing power in readily spendable hands of firms and households -- stable . a relatively minor , technological divergence in means , one might say . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary -- that the private economy on its own may well become subject to unbearable instability ­, and that strategic , powerful , but limited economic intervention by governments was necessary to preserve stability . a divergence of opinion that rested on various judgments about how a world operates that might ( and ultimately was ) be resolved through empirical research , one might say . and you would be half right .
the prospect of america ’s monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . the result has been appreciation of the dollar against the euro and the yen . the euro stands at 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of last year , and the yen is down 14 % . but speculators are thinking ahead and shifting from commodities today to anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result was to send next year ’s price decline ahead to this day . a fourth set of channels , the exchange rate , has already worked .
this pattern of action and inaction by the council has given more credence to those who believe that the un ’s ’s highest human rights body is inherently anti-israel . i am conscious that judge goldstone , a dedicated , and unimpeachable human-rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when it first came to a close . but he managed to work with the council ’s president to secure an agreement that he felt confident would authorize a mandate to interpret in such ways as enabling his team to address the actions taken by the two parties to the conflict . i chose not to commit to a mission for these reasons . i was also conscious that the un human rights council had produced a repeated condemnations of israel over the last two years , but had focused little attention on large-scale human-rights violations in other countries .
in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union had substantial soft power . but soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin ’s ’s crimes in 1956 and repression in hungary in 1956 , czechoslovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union had substantial soft power . though in theory communism aimed at establishing a world-class justice system , lenin ’s heirs retained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , widespread censorship , and ubiquitous whistleblowers . the net effect of such brutal measures was a generalized loss of faith .
coronado , california – most people do not think of charles darwin as a psychologist . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbes , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could describe only current mental events and behaviors ; they can not be allowed to account for their causes . in fact , his work has revolutionized the field . prior to the darwin administration , philosophical speculation shaped our psychology ’ understanding of the future . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution has influenced the shape of our brains as powerfully as it shapes our bodies .
indeed , assessing the impact of any research project is difficult . when salvador luria , a professor at harvard medical school , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , dispatching a humorous cartoon , to all who congratulated him on the prize . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table . when salvador luria , a professor at harvard medical school , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , dispatching a humorous cartoon , to all of whom he congratulated him on the prize . even preeminent researchers may underestimate the significance of his findings at a time when they get them .
it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing nearly all gdp gains over the last quarter-century . america ’s tax code has already been regressive long before trump ’s presidency . america ’s tax code has already been regressive long before trump ’s presidency . and , when implemented fully ( in 2027 ) , it will raise taxes on a majority of americans in the middle east ( the other , third , and fourth quintiles ) . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that he was mistaken to pay a lower tax rate than his cabinet secretary .
california , an american state with more than two million independent contractors , has tried to settle this question with a new law , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies the legal criteria to determine how to categorize workers . to win political support for the ab5 ’s passage , legislators exempted many types of independent contractors – for example , physicians , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , interact directly with their customers , earning at least twice the minimum wage . a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors , or as employees of platform companies with whom they have employment contracts , and for whose customers they provide services . but ab5 is covering the more than 400,000 workers who drive for platform companies , like ride-sharing services , uber , and lyft , and food-delivery firm doordash . applying the three-component “ abc test ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker qualified for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for firms to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than workers .
making matters worse , modi ’s government has , for the first time ever , invoked section 7 of the rbi act , which enables it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on matters of public interest . such measures are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients . the government is particularly unhappy with the rbi measures to clear india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a large volume of non-performing assets and prevent risks from building in other parts of the financial system . to be sure , government ministers can not emerge right . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths suggests that more than interest rates are at stake .
of course , abe did not face the kind of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did . but , after more than two decades of leaders , who – aside from junichiro koizumi ’s “ promised little and accomplished ” – japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe would follow through on his pledges . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy . as any democratic politician attest , disappointed expectations may well become everyone ’s toughest electoral opponent . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he set a bold economic-reform agenda and pledged to boost japan ’s global clout .
in many such patients , doubling down on plavix and checking the platelet function with the point-of-care test to rest control , can override the lack of response . the interferon narrative , given one year for patients with hepatitis c virus , is especially striking . those individuals carrying at least one copy of a gene variant that does not allow the body to metabolize plavix have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent . there are alternative drugs , such as josé sugrel or ticagrelor , that can be used , instead of plavix , to bypass the problem . interferon ’s story , given one year for hepatitis c patients , is especially striking .
after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while peace divides them . the repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where drug cartels are tearing apart the country , with the us , the world ’s ’s ’s largest demand source . if chávez ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s acolytes have become the narco-state , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . the repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where drug cartels are tearing apart the country , with the us and the rest of the world ’s ’s ’s largest demand source . west africa , too , would intervene , having become a major transit point in recent years for south american drugs headed to europe .
the key , however , is that the budget does not simply rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . a second pillar of poverty reduction focuses on investment for the poor , particularly for rural poor . at the heart of the budget is the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investment targeting the poorest of the poor . meanwhile , rapid economic growth has come from the private sector , including foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . budgets therefore promote critical areas of market-oriented reform and growth promotion , including measures aimed at deepening the financial sector , encouraging exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment .
among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran and israel . the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran . for israel ( as well as saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran . indeed , an exaggeration to say the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism , might well play a direct role in russian president vladimir putin ’s hand .
cambridge – america ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , is hemmed in on all sides . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments that mnuchin ’s predecessors had overseen . domestically , it has been imprisoned between the promises that he made ( such as mnuchin ’s rule of mnuchin ’s rule ” that taxes would be cut off for the wealthy ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the wealthy ) , and simple arithmetic ( making the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international scene , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a hard time . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are merely a forum for making unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks the government ’s experience – persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms such as open trade , are all in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreement reached in paris later this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement declared on december 12 than the debate over the course of discussion . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement had failed to commit resolutely to limiting global warming to 1.5 º celsius above preindustrial levels by 2050 . but such a commitment would not have been credible . no sooner had the agreement been announced on december 12 than the debate erupted in may .
muslim charities , often financed by saudi arabia and other arab countries , have begun moving into areas of social life , where the state has failed states , particularly education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys have been enrolled in school for the first time . sadly , they have been educated at the religious seminaries of espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . fearing for their safety , muslim professionals have begun to move toward ghettos . with discrimination soon cutting across class lines , an increasing number of indian muslims have started to seek connections with muslim communities elsewhere around the world .
today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than do state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . workers do not protest menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou , but rather against no job opportunities in the socialist shenyang . with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ a large share of the proletariat , manufacture goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , owing to their superior performance , safeguard proletarian savers ’ interests by effectively repaying their bank loans . the government can not pay unemployed workers with whom socialism bankrupted its financing . why most pundits miss the reality of workers ’ protests , not in the zhejiang liberal provinces and guangdong , but in the northeastern socialist bastions , is a puzzle .
but , while we see inequality and exclusion in club-level soccer , the reverse is true for competitions among national teams . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of a victory in europe ’s championship , as steaua ( romania ) , the red star movement ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third partition ) once did . the same goes for all the games played on the final tournament , not only those among the top eight national teams . the average winning margin among the world cup ’s top eight national teams has been steadily declining , from over two goals in the 1950 ’s to around 1.5 goals in the 1960s , 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s , and just 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the decline in winning margins is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams , many of them new , and rather inexperienced .
with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked increase in long-term growth as administration projections would have been historically anomalous . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked increase in long-term growth as administration projections would have been historically anomalous . in a omb paper , the real interest rate on three-month us treasuries is expected to stay below 1 % over the course of a decade . furthermore , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost completely . currently , the budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the “ blue ” chip , in which interest rates remain low but the ambles along at about 2 % .
under the new electoral rule , seats are allotted to parties in proportion to votes , but a special provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral agreements : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the most votes awarded to a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) . that outcome would be accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself was to distance himself from politics in the upcoming electoral term . a new electoral system is transforming politicians ’ incentives and might induce a return to shifting coalitions and fragile governments . but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics reached by berlusconi , as well as an institutional feature that he rescinded . one of his cabinet ’s latest acts was to replace the majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 , with proportional rule .
this is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading – not an unsustainable credit-led growth model – is the key to achieving high-income status . though the current rate of 7 % is comfortable , it is far below the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to the 2008 financial crisis . and it has had some success – at the expense of economic growth . but there is more to judge wen ’s stimulus than the “ growth/reform trade-off . ” given the need for deeper economic restructuring – and , in view of longer-term demographic trends to reduce labor supply , pre-2008 growth rates are unlikely to return .
here , public-investment institutions , like the european investment bank , can help with adaptation in a number of ways . for example , how will a city cope with increased flood risk and how will farmland be maintained productively as droughts grow more severe ? the climate challenge demands a much deeper level of private-sector cooperation to enhance green investment . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the heightened impact of climate change and develop clear global standards for de-risking that investment projects present . big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money might interfere with the changing climate .
the speaker was not some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri , . they plan , and design headline-grabbing attacks , using every means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of free people . consider the fact that violent extremists have their own “ media relations committees ” ” aimed at manipulating the elite ’s views . terrorists have been skillfully tailored to fight wars in today ’s media age , but for most of them , america and other democracies have not . consider the case of violent extremists with their own “ media relations committees ” aimed at manipulating elite views .
to be sure , exemplary and punitive damages in order to discourage behaviors inimical to society do business exist in the statute books books . but philippine courts refused to resort to using such damage awards as a tool to control behavior , particularly from businessmen . simply put , philippine courts failed to make it costly to maintain non-seaworthy vessels . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civilian requests for environmental tort and human rights abuses before american courts demonstrate only how desperate filipino claimants to seek redress against those who have acted with negligently or with impunity . all of this explains why the lines of sulpicio , the owner of the startups ’ princess have remained in commercial operations , despite its many lapses .
and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany have acted even more like an “ occupation officer ” officer . all told , the trump administration ’s ’s ’s disruptive behavior has left both french and german governments angry . but , beyond anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ national sovereignty adds momentum to a new push for european political unification . america ’s congress is considering legislation that authorizes the trump administration to impose sanctions against european firms that engage in the project , even though such companies are contractually obliged to see the job through . it is no secret that europe is at the center of the internal economic crisis – the result of european saddling southern european countries with high inflation ahead of the 2008 financial crash that severely diminished their competitiveness within the european system .
but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu citizens with no border controls . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( greece and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . all have abolished controls within their shared borders , and have adopted a common visa policy for un citizens . and it is undoubtedly convenient to steer from berlin to barcelona , without waiting in line at the line at every border one crosses . it is surely handy to treat a flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport controls to contend with departure and arrival .
a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . such cooperation is crucial to combating terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . yet europe has been much more focused on enforcing shared values in the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data privacy regulations – than on developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . defining such a strategy could pave the way for europe to identify areas for mutual accommodation . europeans have become dependent on such firms , all founded in china or america .
the us federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks while allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to default . so , too , in the us , the smaller banks that mostly fund small and medium-size firms have been all but neglected . after all , small firms ’ reliance on collateral-based lending practices and real estate value – a major form of collateral damage – continues to be down one-third from their pre-crisis levels . but lending would be inhibited , even if the banks were healthier . just adding liquidity , while continuing current austerity policies , will not re-energize the spanish economy .
when the dust settled , it became clear that america , the dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same levels of shortcoming and paid an equally damaging high price . the arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil selling to the us and the netherlands to punish them for their support of israel . the world learned this lesson after the 1973 arab-israel war . but destined oil for america and the netherlands moved to other countries such as japan , while petroleum destined for other countries found its way to america and the netherlands . oil is a fungible commodity , and markets were clear on a common price .
new york – the world has been horrified by graphic images of the latest crackdowns by myanmar ’s ’s military junta . but the bullets and clubs that are unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear rises . the monks have retreated , along with eerie normalcy returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city , and former capital . that crackdown continues under the cover of darkness .
the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can uphold the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions to those that break the rules . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the authorities ’ lack of macroeconomic discipline and their tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests have accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that such sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . nor , of course , has been it has ever envisaged that greece will face its current economic trauma . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that such sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty .
in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that continued growth would open up to all humanity , we should reflect on how far we have come . in the late roman empire , only a affluent aristocrat might have bought into the nomenclator – a slave tasked with memorizing names and faces , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . once again , this would have been ludicrously expensive – or simply impossible – – to achieve similar capabilities in earlier periods of history . today , having a staple smartphone is better than owning a dozen or even thousands , of nomenclator-like assistants . these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communication , modern information processing , and so forth .
this may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s international order . insofar as it may be correct , the united states will not be replaced as a dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role . the vital interests guiding chinese policy are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s unity ( one that includes taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for a long time . as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for this reason – pursues its own foreign-policy interests entirely unsentimental .
the global financial crisis , which followed the east asia crisis , laid out a series of major exchange-rate adjustments . wages and prices fell , but not high enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially given the large inflow of agricultural goods that constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantages face high hurdles in re-entry markets in rich countries . the government pursued fiscal austerity , but not sufficient for the vagaries of the market . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , rose sharply in value . meanwhile , argentina ’s portugal and mercosur ’s trade partner , saw its currency depreciate – some say it had become massively undervalued .
making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions while spurring state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks . when such a debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy , via household-sector balance sheets , with cutbacks in consumption contributing to declining employment and private-sector investment . still , the chinese authorities seem to have learned the lessons of either episode . not only did they fail to mitigate risk , underscored in 2007 , that new retail investors are introducing into the market ; in fact , they have exacerbated them , by enabling , and even encouraging , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . it is far more difficult to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than , say , that triggered the financial sector ’s balance-sheet distress .
it is a shock rather than adjustment . when shocks to the system arise , agents do n’t know what will come next . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes highlighted its fallacy . faced with that uncertainty , they fail to readjust their spending ; instead , they refrain from spending until the mists that are clear , send the economy into a tailspin . but i doubt that it has .
over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , particularly in the advanced industrial countries with an aging population , should worry about the sustainability of their policies . america ’s financial industry has polluted the world with its toxic mortgages , and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes should be imposed on it . besides , well-designed financial-sector taxes might help to alleviate the problems created by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . the us financial sector has imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society . taxes on speculative activity might spur banks to shift more attention to performing their key societal role in lending .
after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and economists less omniscient ) than they would like to imagine . economists might not like to focus on public thinking and how it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics . but public reactions to them , coupled with recent oil-price spikes , may well account for a good measure of a shift in market psychology . attitudes toward risks are changing over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s ’s and peres ’s remarks may precipitate such changes . so , while such things may occur in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as carefully as he does to those of bernanke to try to grasp the direction of the world ’s ’s stock markets .
new york – in their attempt to pass on a bailout plan to america ’s financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . the asian financial crisis of ten years ago brought the banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . but , for most asians , economic armageddon is far more recent . contagion soon spread throughout east asia , with the ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil . the bonded bonded bonded ’ collapse in the summer of 1997 .
one ought to know the moral character of any action one is contemplating . of course , plato ’s purpose in dialogue is not to define piety : when socrates knows a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by euthyphro , he fails to disclose it . and , to know that , one must be equally conscious of what one does not know as to what one does not know about what one does . the knowledge that comes with this kind of self-examination is critical in every decision making . rather , plato ’s point is to demonstrate that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance of piety , and that euthyphro can not truly know that prosecuting his father is really the right thing to do .
this year , china is experiencing its worst drought in a half-century that has affected millions of hectares of farmland and created power shortages . in northern africa , the encroaching desert has displaced many people , exacerbated by tensions among farmers and herders . after all , the agriculture sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with water in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population . furthermore , water scarcity implies food scarcity . one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation .
emerging economies need to grapple with the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping policy changes , incentivizing incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative , they are just the first step . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth fueled by a massive youth army is ending . efficiencies have soared , placing brazil ’s crop yields on par with those in advanced economies . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d has enabled brazilian industrial research firms to pioneer more than 9,000 technologies projects , including the designs of a tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate .
second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members deliver policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . to be meaningful , the message must be backed up with action : the g-20 ’s members must demonstrate clearly that their policies are channeled toward renewed economic growth and job creation , and that they will be held accountable for meeting their commitments fully . but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies a pressing need for far more decisive reform . since the g-20 ’s ’s cannes meeting last november , for example , europe has been stepping up its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , established fiscal discipline rules , and implemented a wide range of labor – as well as product-market reforms . we are confident that europeans will act together to meet these challenges , and that we will continue to support such efforts , because european stability and growth matter for us all .
they need to work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized , lest they end up as anything less than number one . instead , the choices only become less clear-cut , less democratic and less effective . refusing to prioritize , dealing primarily with the most publicized issues , is mistaken . but not talking about priorities does not compel the need to prioritize go sideways . whenever we prioritize , we say not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not step up our efforts ( something that is seen as cynical ) .
as it stands , surveys indicate , people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , but still higher than the level that they would judge ideal . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s views of redistributive polities . this is true in most countries – including america , where inequality is among the highest in the world – although a handful of countries , like norway , where people share a more realistic view . the bottom line is not to be lost in endless comparisons or arcane math , but rather to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have a meaningful debate about inequality based on concrete figures with the goal of setting clear goals . if the right targets are to be chosen , the debate must be better informed .
putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy ; but , for china , he has been the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable . similarly , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank or company access to america ’s financial system would generate the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after the fall of communism . those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy , which have been the most vulnerable to the soviet union . third , obama should emphasize the chinese stake in eurasian stability . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin – whose primary leadership claim is that he ended the penury of the first post-soviet years – to continue with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly .
the city of london , lower manhattan , and a handful of other centers have all become money-creating machines making investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private-equity folk immoderately wealthy . against this backdrop , it is not surprising that financial-sector pay has soared . many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some have gone out of business completely . for the past two years , matters have been quite different . university leaders like me spent much of our time convincing them to recycle part of their gains to their old schools .
“ visibly flustered ” ( china ’s ambassador ) has temporarily lost his ability to speak russia and begin spluttering in china to keep aide aide aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” ” ” according to a confidential american diplomatic cable obtained by the us web site wikileaks.org . in a february meeting with american ambassador to kyrgyzstan , america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart about news reports that china had been offering to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if the kyrgyz shut down the american base . the two diplomats were conversing in russia , at least for the time being . indeed , the us policy has emboldened pro-russian politicians , who would love little more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan . both diplomats conversing around the base have been intense .
those lessons , however , imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever likely to envisage . social assistance with little prospect of individual improvements , however , is not enough . in a recent statement on burning suburbs , chirac declared : “ we will have to draw on all the lessons from this crisis , when time comes and order has been renewed and with plenty of courage and lucidity . ” it is time for france to begin to question its economic model . but , ultimately , the best way to address them and avoid their resurgence is to ensure that economic opportunities are made available to those determined to try .
we believe that they are faster than us in acquiring and processing knowledge because they have grown up with the tools and techniques that we lack at their age . we believe that they are faster than us in acquiring and managing knowledge because they have grown up with the tools and techniques that we lack at their age . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry simply fuels the fires of rage . we can not , and wo n’t , allow , this in our own countries . we need to study , train , train , and practice tolerance , and instill in our children , both through education and our own example .
in countries with higher price growth than germany ’s , but with the same borrowing costs , this can not produce anything but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates are producing massive credit expansion . to ask politicians in a democracy with large budget surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or public investment by the enormous magnitude needed to stave off catastrophe strikes , is to be out of touch with reality . in order to stem this credit-induced flood demand with fiscal policy alone is both impossible and absurd to try . how will you tighten fiscal policy for more than 100 % of gdp in a mere three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004-2007 , and in a sporting fiscal surplus as ireland ?
in the past , doubtless , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would collectively press the case for closer integration , despite britain ’s reluctance . nowadays , however , france and germany are less unified on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration seems less strong . the problem is that this conspiracy of evasion may not work , and fischer ’s significance is that he is the first us government minister in office to say so in the public , even though he pretends to say that this in a personal capacity . as a result , the french government is reluctant to force a confrontation with the british if there is any chance of a softer compromise on the future . but the bottom line is that constitutional amendments can be conducted only by unanimity , with a few member governments starting with the uk that would resist any overtly federalist agenda .
in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard university – is strong . critics cite this as a misguided effort that creates only more distortions and retard growth . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting requirements . markets for innovation and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help to address these market failures . enthusiasts describe it as a new brand of modern industrial policy , which can help to push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . but the evolutionary psychology that stresses competition to females may add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt . there is little that may be done to alter the impact on gender imbalances within a particular place . those among native-born populations with their lowest incomes and education levels will always get worse off if they have to compete for large numbers of young male immigrants . but , while the problem may not be “ “ “ “ “ “ solved ” , ” understanding that may help to mitigate the damage , not least by allowing leaders to eschew policies that are either not helpful or exacerbated by tensions .
judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same goes for economic relationships . whereas i published a book in 2014 on the codependency of the american economic relationship between the us and china , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalize from human psychology to evaluate the behavior of national economies . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling , because the world ’s two largest economies sink into a dangerous quagmire . in its most fundamental respect , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of the relationship ’s relationship dynamics , when two partners draw more from one another than from its own inner strength . the new haven of codependency never ends well in personal relations .
throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the european union ’s raison d’être ; in the era of globalization , it is america ’s america . european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism -- these are ancient and tired themes . comparisons and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic have a long pedigree . this is the point at which many begin using the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed , with america ’s -- anti-america . but how is this identity to be defined ?
in both episodes , america has been in denial , bordering on delusion . ironically , trump has summoned the same kind of robert lighthizer , the veteran of japan ’s trade battles in the 1980s to lead the charge against china . with that trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms worldwide , american consumers will be hit by the functional equivalent of a tax hike . with that trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms worldwide , american consumers will be hit by the functional equivalent of a tax hike . unfortunately , lighthizer seems as clueless about the macro argument today .
hollande ’s government and prime minister , jean-marc ayrault , has strong majorities at all the executive and legislative levels , providing it a rare opportunity to act . while the un security council is outdated in its structure , it still plays a critical legitimizing role ; and france , rather than germany , is a member . finally , alongside the united kingdom among european countries , france retains more of a global role than germany has acquired so far . the french center-left must lead in conceiving a vision for europe in which solidarity and equity are mutually reinforcing long-term economic strength . if it can renew the european model at home , it will be able to project that success far more widely , especially in southern europe , in turn reinforcing the eu ’s trust and faith , particularly among young generations .
a third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be to foster regional arab solidarity . but the 2011 revolutions demonstrated that a strong sense of identity , collective language , and a much shared history bind arabs together , despite the vast differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the “ arab world ’s arabness . ” how else can one explain the rebel act in tunisia has led to popular revolts , from north africa to the arabian peninsula ? deep reforms – focused on quality and performance , rather than on enrollment and diplomas – are needed to transform the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a youthful labor force requires .
america ’s largest tech companies are starting to compete for talent by offering paternity leave . attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift in america . who , for example , has a boss , or a company that better promotes reconciling work and family obligations ? only the third of millennial men are convinced in traditional gender roles . who , for example , has the more flexible labor force ?
if public-sector deleveraging is not a complete growth policy – and it is not – why is there so much attention devoted to fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment ? muted wage growth undermine competitiveness and underutilized labor and capital inflows . but it also hinges on the government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function for a deficiency in aggregate demand and pursue reforms and investment that boost long-term growth prospects . how fast this happens in part will depend on private-sector flexibility and dynamism . several possibilities – not mutually exclusive – come to mind .
journalists report the tragic narratives of middle-class americans losing their jobs and homes , potentially placing their lives at a risk of no welfare . by contrast , when the personal situations of many individual americans are being studied through european eyes , the extreme individualism that constitutes a core component of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . it is incorrect to suppose , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of social protection makes you stronger . who gets to pay for your expensive cancer treatment if you lose your own health insurance policies that come with your job ? “ cities of tents ” are filling with the victims of the economic crisis , ” read one headline a month earlier on a mass-circulation american newspaper .
warsaw : recently poland has experienced typical -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . it has focused on whether " free " education should be made the constitutional right . because of their dominance in parliament , the postcommunists ' intransigence on this point have forced the other political parties to participating in drafting poland 's new constitution in order to kowtow to their positions . only by raising the question to the level of the constitutional right , say the postcommunists , can eu guarantee free and equal access to education . freedom , or as its postcommunist advocates prefer to call this , a " not paid for " education , " means education in state-owned schools and national universities ( but not in private schools ) .
at the same time , the private sector has a role to play in driving the shift toward unconventional water sources – a role that must extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater levels . at the same time , the private sector has a role to play in driving the shift toward unconventional water resources – a role that must extend far beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . the sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities need to be mobilized through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water sources . the sustainable development goal six calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation .
america 's negotiators are fixated on targeted cuts of some $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe . beyond a tit-for-tat ceasefire , there are few real benefits to come from the us . given the scale of america 's multilateral problem , this is largely a meaningless objective , particularly given the massive and ill-timed tax cuts and federal expenditure increases that america enacted over the past six months . as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal . as a result , targeting of china has enormous political appeals .
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as well as severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and rising middle class ; and those that have yet to benefit economically from the region ’s rapid economic development ; and whose health and well-being are adversely affecting acute problems like air and water pollution . asia needs a strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth that implies the need to rebalance sources of economic dynamism in order to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional “ south-south ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at a lower but still enviable , rates – and to improve quality .
a normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of today ’s produced commodities is not a serious problem , because it accounts for excess demand for other currently produced commodities . as industries suffering from insufficient demand shed workers , industries that profit from excess demand hire them . the us economy ’s rapid rebalances itself , and thus returns to full employment , do so with the configuration of employment and production that is better tailored to current consumer preferences . berkeley – a central insight in us macroeconomics – makes it known to john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : a wide range of supply and demand can be extended to pretty much all currently produced goods and services and types of labor if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets . and it is this fundamental fact that underlies the great difficulty .
the prosecution then proceeded to speak out of the young girl as a chechen snipers from the family of snipers . last month , however , the army 's prosecutor general embraced colonel budanov 's argument that he was temporarily insane when he killed his girl , and so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov sacked his prosecutor , who appeared prepared to acquit the " hero " on all remaining charges . russian liberals were initially welcomed by budanov 's case as a sign that the country may address the accusations that war crimes were committed in chechnya . ( rape charges , for some ambiguous reason , have already been dropped . )
the plan needs to recognize that during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation , aggravated wealth inequality . but , of course , the us does not exist in a vacuum . the good news is that the incoming administration may be able to draw on the measures that were formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional us congress policies that have characterized most of obama ’s eight years in office . once the team is in place , its members will need to figure out how to compel trump to work for an economy that has – by necessity , not choice – been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . such actions address imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how great business worked , and when the power of such firms should be constrained . in retrospect , the breakthrough legislation – not only for the american people , but also internationally , the 1890 ’s – was the sherman antitrust act . most people saw the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , big firms as stabilizing development that rewarded success and enabled additional productive investment . the dodd-frank financial reform bill , about to pass america ’s senate , does something similar – and long overdue – for banking . prior to the 1890 ’s , large trading was widely viewed as more efficient , and more modern than small-business .
according to a recent feature at the guardian , a team of white house staffers would select ten letters each day to pass alongside a president who would then respond to them personally that evening . no , i mean an old-line dear donald ” or a dear hillary ” letter . no , i mean , an old-fashioned dear donald ” letter of donald ” , or a dear hillary ” letter . the reason i ask is that 65,000 people actually did write such letters to barack obama each week , when he served as president of the united states . tokyo – when was the latest in a row , writing a letter ?
back in 1992 , john major ran for reelection amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of rapid inflation . economic determinists predicted that he did not stand a chance at all . but , ultimately , they would do precisely what they did in each of the previous four elections – vote for a party that proclaimed “ each man for himself ” for himself . today , this pseudo-marxist theory of economic determinism has been refuted once and for all . they may well tell the pollsters that they were ready to pay higher taxes to improve public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor .
american foreign-policy formation , on the other hand , is strongly constrained by institutions like the us congress , the courts , and the us constitution . the transformational objectives and inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india , or nelson mandela , in south africa , can profoundly influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . one would thus expect fewer opportunities for transformational leadership . but even america ’s constitution is unambiguous about the powers of both the us congress and the president over foreign policy . transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style tends to appear during periods of rapid and discontinuous social and political change .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations ’ food and agriculture organization launched the plan for tropical forestry ( forestry ) , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . but if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + to replace it with a mechanism to address underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of these two agreements was , ironically , producing the reams of expensive consultancy reports . redd + was created as part of the un ’s food and agriculture organization , and the treaty governing its implementation is expected to be finalized during the united nations climate change conference in paris . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , with the latest international efforts to halt it – an initiative known to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely .
it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . ethiopia , however , creates a dilemma for anyone concerned with human rights and democracy . donald payne , a prominent member of the american house of foreign affairs committee , and ana gregomes , a member of the european parliament from portugal and the eu ’s head of observation team in 2005 elections , have sought to tie non-humanitarian aid ever more closely to ethiopia ’s behavior toward press freedom and other human rights . britain and some other european governments have responded to a post-election crackdown by temporarily withholding aid . cutting off aid might have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation of 80 million .
to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts toward conditions that are prevalent among older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancers . such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem more effectively the degradation of people ’s productivity and autonomy , by preserving their physical force , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision . such an effort is also vitally important to find ways to stem more effectively the degradation of people ’s productivity and autonomy , by preserving their own physical force , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision . to keep people working longer , it is critical that they should be able to maintain healthy lives . old age must be viewed not simply as the inevitable stage of life , but rather as opportunities for health-care companies and systems to help people flourish .
such initiatives bring together a broad range of public - and private-sector actors , including multilateral organizations , to fund projects with deep environmental and societal effects . a second big transition-funding opportunity is in blended finance or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . the initiative brings together private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits . the tropical landscapes funding facilities , developed in indonesia to collaborate with the un environment program , is a good example . moreover , the blended approach is helping to scale up and de-risk projects and optimize their financing .
but even better-performing ones , such as brazil , russia , india , and china , are now at odds with a hard landing . emerging markets were originally tied to this distress only when foreign investors began to withdraw from their money . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , have been the most fragile . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , have been the most fragile . many emerging markets are now at risk of severe financial crises .
almost three years ago , british voters did not really know what they did when deciding by a narrow majority to exit the eu . this would foil financial-market speculators , who bet on a withdrawal , and are good news for both the uk and the eu . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . but interventions by bercow and the eu opened themselves to a whole new game , dramatically raising the odds that brexit might not happen . and if a new referendum were held , british voters would most likely need to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining within the eu , because nobody would dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country onto a path of reform that has produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . in the four decades since then , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an equal momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers received market-based incentives . mao zedong died two years earlier ; in 1976 , newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping out his vision for economic development and modernizing the third plenum of the eleventh central committee , held in december 1978 . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state control became relaxed .
jerusalem – owing to misguided american policy , the threat of yet another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open-ended struggle for regional dominance in the middle east . the united states ’ foes have been strengthened , and iran – despite having been branded as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” – has been catapulted to regional hegemony . the result has been the emergence of some surprising , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and shia-dominated iraq are confronting israel , saudi arabia , and much of the other sunni arab states , all of which feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance . iran could never achieve that on its own , certainly not in so short .
in the postcommunist social revolutions ( less often noted than political and economic upheavals ) families and communities were undermined and ( at least in poland ) that the church had been too engaged in politics to assimilate . people were left to withstand the gales of change on their own . to be free but on their own , especially when dependency habits become ingrained . old social structures were torn apart , socialist customs , and vanished overnight ; former norms and unwritten rules were abandoned . fascination with liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere at a bizarre moment .
to be sure , crises are emphasizing the need to strengthen the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . enlargement of the eu ’s association of freedom and democracy , peace , stability , stability , and prosperity – particularly throughout south-eastern europe – is in the interest of every european citizen . likewise , the crisis must not become an excuse to produce new institutional formats that endanger the delicate balance among the various eu institutions , a rebalancing that – through appropriate adjustments – was proven to test the time . likewise , the crisis must not become an excuse for creating new institutional formats that endanger the delicate balance within the various eu institutions , a rebalancing that – through appropriate adjustments – has been proven through the test of time . we need a definitive and comprehensive ratification of the treaty of lisbon to have the institutionally and internationally stronger europe needs .
instead of eliminating such a system , as expected , modi ’s government augmented sugar subsidies to encourage higher output , raised import duties to discourage foreign competition , and increased the percentage of sugar-based ethanol that needs to be blended with gasoline . that goal explains another policy reversal as well . a widely cited example of outgoing governments ’ ’s alleged economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policy . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by prominent upa ’s supporters , have supposedly drove the government to fix extravagant prices and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , resulting in over-production . his motivation is not hard to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) is hoping that such concessions will help wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s main sugar-producing state , out of the upcoming state assembly election .
berlin – germany ’s social democrats ’ party has captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in regional elections in bavaria this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the cdu in national opinion polls . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but , with the spd now falling , germany is shifting from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system , in which no single party plays a dominant role . with yet another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will lose further support , if not as dramatically as it did in bavaria . the spd has captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in the regional elections in bavaria earlier this month , pitting both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls .
while russia alone will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning has been clear : it would be better for all sides if that money were brought home and invested in the national economy . to achieve this end , russia needs to build a secure and attractive investment climate . most important , if the us is to reverse capital flight , the government must now persuade individual savers that they can deposit cash safely and withdraw it on demands . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment as long as ordinary russians maintain their savings -- $ 50 billion by most estimates -- at home ? russia ’s people need only be convinced of the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , nobody will suggest nationalization , as occurred repeatedly during the eight months that i was prime minister .
opening hungary ’s borders , which fall and seeking refuge by east german citizens in prague ’s german embassies and warsaw , has already shaken the communist and stasi rule to its foundations . without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events throughout europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible . for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took heart , ceasing to fear from their repressive regime . without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events throughout europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible . they realized that east germany ’s realities were not fixed in stone after all ; that the change was possible that many of the brave dissidents and civil-rights proponents trapped behind the wall had demanded so long ago .
what is needed is a comprehensive strategy , with a global reach , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , communities , businesses , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , faith groups , faith groups , academia , coalitions , sports courses , and university campuses . responsibility-sharing – the foundation of a modern international system to protect refugees – is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least able to cope . as a result , some – albeit relatively speaking , not many – have committed to a long-term , often perilous journey toward the developed world . it is past time to reboot global efforts to protect refugees . and yet , when they arrive at the affluent world ’s doorstep , the welcome they receive is becoming increasingly mixed , just as manufactured panic over the supposedly massive “ dangerous ” “ ” outsiders closes down space for humane , pragmatic responses .
munich – europe ’s crisis has passed on to six phases so far . the seventh phase of the crisis is one of heightened moral hazard , stemming from the run-up in greek debt . currently , markets remain calm , but this is only the beginning of the seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe becomes mired in debt . the sequence so far , then , has been as follows : the sequence so far , too , has happened as recently as then . it is worth recalling , for it demonstrates how policymakers have stumbled along , to try to set out fires without keeping an eye on where their chosen path has taken root .
between 1985 and 2005 , the boomsters made a ten-year forecast that exaggerated chances for large positive shifts in both financial markets ( for example , the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( for example , tranquility in the middle east , and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . in the same period , doomsters carried out even more poorly , exaggerating the chances of negative change in all of the same areas where boomsters accentuated positive , plus a few more ( i still await an imminent disintegration in canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . second , once the skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay sanctions for being wrong . they assigned probabilities of 70 % to rosy scenarios that materialized just 15 % . they assigned probabilities of 70 % to rosy scenarios that materialized just 15 % .
margaret thatcher was the first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services – not only in finance , but also in law , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so forth – makes eu membership critical to the eu . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy , whether britain is an eu member , or simply within the wto . the eu ’s economic challenges to brexit would be overwhelming . britain would have to negotiate access to europe ’s single market for its service industries , whereas eu producers would automatically enjoy virtually unlimited rights to sell whatever one wants in britain under the global world trade organization ’s rules . the out of campaign ’s key economic argument – that britain ’s huge trade deficit is a covert weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from a breakdown of trade relations – is flatly wrong .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues such as the separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates to the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have encouraged their followers to take positions in both the bureaucracy and the army . for this , understanding of the historical context of the current crisis is critical . when turkey emerged as a democracy in 1950 , the previous system of secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the power of the military and the bureaucracy to check elected governments . in fact , the turkish military , with the judiciary ’s support , explicitly intervened in the civilian government ’s functioning in the 1960 ’s , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of the protection of secularism .
berlin – during the prolonged night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union cracked . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) , as well as the dire consequences that would follow for greece and its monetary union . since then , europeans have been living in a very different sort of eu . what changed this night was the germany that europeans knew since the end of world war ii . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) , and the dire consequences that would follow for greece and its monetary union .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because the history of arab-led military interventions – unlike those implemented by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . egypt ’s military interventions in yemen in the 1860s are a case in point . despite the use of prohibited chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 , egypt has failed to achieve its aims . such interventions have typically been focused on empowering proxy political power over its military and political rivals , instead of averting humanitarian catastrophe or institutionalizing a us-led war resolution mechanism . egypt ’s ’s military interventions in yemen in the 1860s are a case in point .
the reform process was spearheaded by oecd countries and opened themselves to developing countries only after this initial package was unveiled . today , there are 125 countries participating , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework . ” beps have no doubt been an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies that have been used by multinational corporations . for example , it has launched sharing among country-by-country tax authorities on such firms ’ profits and tax payments . sadly , however , this norm will apply only to very large multinational companies , depriving civil society of an indispensable transparency tool .
pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net commercial revenue ( by far the highest share in the developed world ) . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not broaden the tax base enough to fund a rate cut to 28 % . likewise , while restricting deductibility of net interest to corporations , as so many other developed countries have done , broadening the tax base and discouraging excessive reliance on debt finance , this would increase the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed activities . a few of these actors are extremely large and profitable , enjoying the same degree of legal benefits that corporations enjoy . lowering the tax preferences of non-corporate business entities ( for example , partnerships ) that pass their income through to their owners ’ individual returns would also broaden the tax base subject to corporate-income taxes .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . such conditions exclude any possibility of forging a security plan that would receive the backing of all factions , including hamas . but at the same time , israel insists that gaza have no attributes of sovereignty and will continue to follow existing arrangements , covering most aspects of its security and civilian governance . israel ’s disengagement plan presents gaza ’s settlements ’ evacuation as an end to 37 years of occupation . such conditions rule out any possibility of forging a security plan that would receive the backing of all factions , including hamas .
in others , such as greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the slump exceeded 10 % . almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in the americas peaked at 53 % of overall employment . in fact , since the 1980s , most countries have experienced large declines in agricultural employment since then . almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in america peaked at 53 % of overall employment . today , it is less than 3 % , according to the oecd .
islamabad -- as pakistan ’s gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers hope that the vote will usher in an era of stability and calm with lending popular legitimacy on its government . to be sure , contesting elections would provide my party with a major opportunity to take issues to the people . but , at times , democracy is best served by refusing to participate . the upcoming elections , to be held under the illegal interim constitutional order ( pco ) , implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s ’s ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are just such a case in point , with my party and its coalition partners boycotting the vote . in fact , my party ’s support has been on the rise , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second favorite in the frontier province – and gaining ground in each other province .
just like bernanke and others wish otherwise – and as much as bickering politicians seek to dump policy responsibilities on others – central banks lack the proper tools to deal with the components of an unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , training , and physical capital . likewise , they are unable to correct debt overhangs , repair breached home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . and it is a good deal to devote the official sector to paying more attention to joblessness – a very good deal . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at an increasing cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act forward . yet , sadly , this shift will not solve the problem that eats away at the social fabric of any society .
indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released earlier this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . the majority of china ’s internationally shared water resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950 ’s . moreover , china recently slashed the flow of the brahmaputra river , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india , to build dams as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . unsurprisingly , the plateau is china ’s new dam building hub . indeed , china ’s ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action is crucial to preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it has been . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii . today , it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii .
this was certainly true of my parents , who sacrificed much to educate their nine children . but this was not farfetched to transform the transformation in a city in which people were assuming new identities – such as the nasserist , ba’ath , ba’ath , islamist , or communist – downplaying their regional and tribal origins . other public services were better off as well , and parents believed that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had . they were not satisfied when , in the 1970s , their older sons became communists , strongly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father . schools were multiplying as attendance .
today , training programs in gcc national health systems fail to focus on innovations or systems thinking to enhance efficiency and effectiveness . and now policymakers must also devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself to ensuring that they are adequately educated and trained to the challenges that await the region . this results in high turnover , owing to over-work , and increased need for foreign health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . but the equitable distribution of health-care services across native and migrant populations is often a thorny political question . gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and quality health subsidies .
the decisive moment came when de gaulle , in military uniform , traveled on tv to demonstrate his mastery of the new middle east . if the military collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france that collapses . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , when it invited the army to reject even a passive association with the insurrection , and then instructed it to reassert public order . “ well , ” dear , and old country , here we are again confronted by a heavy test ” ” he said . if the us army collapses , so is algeria [ and ] france , which collapses .
iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study at asian universities , where they would discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about future − that might very well cause them to reflect on why young iranians do not share this optimism . so all means should be found to move beyond iranian society at all levels . what we do know with certainty is that the regime itself is deeply divided . just when the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad was merely an instrument of the supreme leader , ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad appointed a vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later retracted that appointment ) . those divisions will allow new powers to emerge within iranian society .
during the last few years , nato ’s funding policy has been updated to permit common funding to be deployed as a disincentive to provide certain theater-level capabilities , such as medical facilities , airports handling soldiers and supplies , or intelligence . common funding , with all eu members paying a share according to their gdp , is one tool that can be deployed to achieve more equitable burden-sharing . how can one evaluate a contribution to light infantry supplies against the provision of critical enablers , such as helicopters or airborne refueling refueling tankers ? nato has traditionally applied a “ cost ” policy lie where it falls ” : each member has picked up all the cost of operating contributions that it has made to the alliance ’s operations . over what time period is you making your calculations ?
with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underlying their policies . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underlying their policies . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been restrained by debt headwinds – yet another outcome of easy monetary conditions . owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen as “ zombie ” firms proliferated . given these conditions , continued insistence on monetary easing appears especially ill .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year , regime — once central to america 's strategic interests in the region - has been made to feel circumscribed by america 's powerful hints that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even to saudi oil . although the saudis have not been included in president bush 's “ america first " axis of evil , ” some american policymakers now view the country as a “ kernel of evil " kernel of evil . so , among the wrong set of options , the least bad seems to be cooperation with the us . al-qaeda ’s ’s terrorist networks are viewed as having come straight out of the fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines that constitute an integral part of the saudi regime . yet cooperation with the us may not gain much al-sauds , for saudi relations with america are strained to a breaking point .
while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these particular clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as the traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of victims unable to remember their trauma , precisely because it has been so overwhelmingly terrifying . many clinical trauma theorists believe that combating , rape , and other fearsome experiences are seemingly engraved around the mind , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that mind can protect themselves by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it difficult for victims to remember their most horrific experiences until they are safe to do so many years later . nonetheless , such clinical trauma theorists may not argue that “ repressed ” or “ dissociated ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign . how victims recall trauma is the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry today .
as a child , mastering the vicious art of elé belé belé was important . in calcutta , when some younger kid came together and insisted on joining the game that my friends played , we would let the new kid in , but only after whispers to one another ’s ears , elé belé . in calcutta , when some younger kid came together and insisted on joining the game that my friends played , we would let the new kid in , but only after whispers to one another ’s ears , elé belé belé . everybody knew that the goal scored by him was not a real goal . an elé belé is a player who believes that he is participating but , in truth , merely going through motions .
northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , has argued that america ’s economy is bound to decelerate , because today ’s technological innovations will not spur growth to the extent they have had in the past . yet , while the zero lower bound no longer appears to be a binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one concerning the level of debt . as the growth pessimism of the last few years fades , some of the warnings made in recent years seem to be becoming obsolete . the financial times ’ stock-exchange rate rose by nearly 22 % in 2017 – its best performance since the 2009 post-crisis rebound . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers received much attention to his argument that the world risks slipping toward “ secular stagnation , ” ” because the interest rate needed to bring desired investment along lines with desired savings fell below zero .
india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , more hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirect the natural flow of any single river , or to reduce cross-border water flows . but even the joint expert-level mechanism – established in 2007 only for “ interactions and collaboration ” on hydrological data – has demonstrated little value . in fact , china has been damming most of the international rivers that are flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already under threat to global warming . india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , more hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirect the natural flow of any river , or to reduce cross-border water flows . meanwhile , local authorities in yunnan province are contemplating damming the salween inside a quake-prone upstream region .
finally , currency chaos is the safest bet on all , with sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . as for china ’s ’s renminbi , it continues to support a highly political exchange-rate regime . perhaps , but most students of monetary policy view quantitative easing as the textbook policy of pulling the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” thus impeding the onset of persistent deflation that would exacerbate the debt burden . as for china ’s ’s ’s renminbi , it continues to support a highly political exchange-rate regime . after all , china ’s rapid growth will have to reflect a substantial surge in its currency , its domestic price level , or both .
with america distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers , particularly economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are prime candidates for the job . which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? moreover , they have shown their shared desire to uphold the existing asian order . with america distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers , notably the us , economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are prime candidates for the job . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own international relations the values that america espouses , for example , the need to preserve a stable balance of power , respect for the territorial and maritime status quo , and preserve freedom of navigation .
moreover , adequate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their commitments under the un convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to tackle climate change effectively . but , because climate change poses a more far-reaching and severe challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to address it . after all , the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the climate-change challenge . after all , developing countries will fulfill their commitments under the un convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to address climate change effectively .
florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim has abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of an international financial order with no leadership or direction for leadership . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . kim will join a private-equity firm where he believes that he can “ make the greatest impact on major global issues like climate change . ”
a <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchases of zero-interest-rate government bonds that will not be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds or because they are rolled over every time they are rolled over . that is arguably what the bank of japan is now doing . nonetheless , it has launched a policy of replacing government-bond purchases on the boj ’s balance sheet once they mature , while steadily increasing the level of government debt on the books of the central bank . that comes after years of statements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money offered a way to counter deflation ( with which japan has struggled for decades ) . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has said that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option .
starting in the summer of 2015 , trump embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and rage toward gop elites . his supporters resemble tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle-class , and white . in fact , his voters ’ average annual per capita income , at around $ 72,000 , far exceeds america ’s median of $ 56,000 . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . media outlets have provided as little more than $ 2 billion worth of free coverage , helped by him grab and behind polls and most primaries .
our reaction to soulless bodies is well illustrated in a story telling of descartes after he died . according to the story , descartes was so struck with the grief he created by creating an automaton , a mechanical doll , built to appear identical to his dead daughter . descartes was known to have an illegitimate daughter , a francine , who died when she was five years old . they become soulless bodies , and a moral circle closes in to exclude them . once a group of people is viewed as disgusting , the attention shift away from them as moral entities .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction has summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy our country ’s peace and stability . if these bombings are designed to send a message , i will sweep it off and crush it under my legs . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate nervous reactions to restricting democratic rights . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated . we wo n’t change our course , either .
if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not gain the presidency , but instead will continue to represent the hopes of a majority of iranians who differ dramatically with his administration . mousavi has to go on with his legal campaign carefully , without compromising the trust that he has won from the majority of iranians . he must stand by his two principal demands : the nullification of the elections and the establishment of an impartial committee to govern on the government ’s violations of electoral laws . nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi who are out of odds with khamenei ’s authority directly . mousavi must press khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power will be shaken .
but , although yanukovych thought mainly of his own personal interest , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone else to assist the people , and this should have been yanukovych ’s top priority . imagine that he has stalled to ask himself what would have made him happier . imagine that , with that question in mind , he has leveled off an alternative to the pitiful lifestyle ( with private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably paid for by him , while knowing that he is governing with integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s lives . at the same time , there is something even more important than a single ’s reputation .
it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage with the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained manner , or whether dprk officials and diplomats are merely putting a good face in order to deflect international attention from their country ’s ’s reputation as a nuclear weapons-monger and human-rights violator . indeed , a visit to incheon comes within a context of mixed messages . two days before a north korean delegation arrived , a committee for the peaceful re-unification of korea ( cprk ) , which is officially part of the korean people ’s party , denounced a “ south korean puppet force for grave violations of north-south joint statements and pushed back north-south ties to its worst disaster . ” north korea has been far less forthcoming on its intentions , and has been far less forthcoming . on the day incheon incheon ’s visit , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s state news agency continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and america : “ lurking behind this is an ulterior design of america to [ prod ] zealously the south korean puppet force to escalating confrontation with the dprk in a bid to strain of the situation to an extreme pitch and spark [ a ] second korean war .
it is not efficient for a dentist and a lawyer . but specialization at the individual level actually leads to greater diversification . yes , people specialize , and they should specialize , too . when an idea is both intuitively true and actually false , this is often because it is true on one level but not on the level at which it is applied . everybody benefits from each of us becoming good at different things and exchanging our knowhow to others .
on the contrary , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to stop until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had been fully infor.target malaria ’s ’s ’s lack of commitment to consent reflected in its own rhetoric that eschews the unequivocal word “ consent ” but regularly uses like “ engagement ” and “ community acceptance . ” civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have also been insufficiently consulted about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people were not engaged in a genuinely participatory debate on the goal of malaria project , much less extended their informed consent . that choice may indicate that the organization ’s ’s leaders had already committed to pursuing release.reinforcing this conclusion , following the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between the free , prior , and informed consent amid medical research concerning individuals ( where it is demanded ) and the public-health context . civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have also been insufficiently consulted about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people were not engaged in a genuinely participatory debate on the goal of malaria project , much less extended their informed consent . gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , and mosquitos , especially females , may surf air currents at relatively high altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where winds could blow them hundreds of miles .
the world ’s labor markets are now globally interconnected . young people in countries as varied as egypt and america are in effect competing against the young chinese and indians for jobs . they are not much protests , but many end up in jail . many more have simply become discouraged and dropped out of the labor force completely : rather than in school , rather than in search of work . china ’s low-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) set the standard for competitiveness globally .
article 7 of the lisbon treaty establishes to suspend the rogue eu member state ’s voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires unanimity voting by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never apply it . but the weakening of the rule of law is not only domestic in hungary or poland . indeed , article 7 is such an ineffectual deterrent that it serves rule-breakers ’ interests by all but guaranteeing not being punished . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , encouraging other populists to pursue his own authoritarian ends , and with eu funds to boot .
in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda , saying that there was incontrovertible evidence of ties with al qaeda , and that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there had been overwhelming evidence that bush lay down . it is possible for bush to read these messages , but that they were beyond his comprehension . detection technologies made it clear that iraq had no nuclear weapons at all , as the chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . it is also conceivable that he did not believe what he read .
like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth in a us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and western europe for years to come . returnees is present in many other asian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . all of these groups are driven by a nihilistic rage born of hostility toward non-sunnis , and a rejection of modernity . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how an obscure local group has been able to conduct sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , employing amals . returnees is present in many other asian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan .
as jolie ’s movie so succinctly , neither the international community nor the local leaders have made a concerted effort to prevent bloodshed . the movie has already won two awards , and has been emerging box-office successes , attesting to the enduring interest – and perhaps mystifying – that the balkans holds for international audiences that were as frightening as they were puzzled by events in the 1990 ’s . one exception – perhaps the sole exception – has been kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president , who died in slumdog on new year ’s day at 94 . denver – angelina jolie ’s novel film , blood land , and honey – is about the ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . for those of us living and working in the region during this turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds .
and that process is likely to accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to secure her proposed exit deal through parliament . beyond shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also begin to reallocate jobs . there are evidence of falling foreign investment , and this contributes to the us economy ’s disappointing levels of investment overall . moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . there are also signs that uk-based companies began to trigger their brexit contingency plans after a protracted period of waiting , planning , and more waiting .
opinion polls nowadays are bouncing wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in support of hamon among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby empowering its citizens . and he views globalization as a good deal , but he understands that it must be managed through durable , effective international agreements and institutions . but if macron qualifies a second round , he will pose a bigger threat to le pen than to the outright far-left candidate . he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and efficient , but he also promotes national and european-level decision-making , where it suits ; the key is that processes should be flexible and allowed to participate in citizen parties .
the european project is a realist in responding to globalization and its challenges . having achieved these goals , europe now wants to make a positive contribution to world developments . an unprecedented level of solidarity now exists all over europe , as was evident in the collective mourning and the outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we need to build on that enormous potential to establish a rationale for global solidarity . this is not the expression of nostalgia for past glory ; it is the soviet union . it has been launched to produce “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and europe ’s social model .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why have nobody been seeing it coming ? ” krugman ’s mercurial response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . while this has been regrettable , it has raised no “ deep conceptual issue ” – that is , it has not demanded that they rethink their theory . theirs has been a failure not of theory , but of “ data collection . ” they have “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system .
the same can not be said for the kaczyński.another major difference is that eastern europeans tend to cling to more materialist attitudes than westerners who have moved beyond worries about physical security to embrace what the sociologist ronald inglehart calls “ post-materialist ” values . notwithstanding trump and brexit phenomena , america and the uk have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . one aspect of this divide is that eastern europe ’s societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions , such as freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should not be overly surprising . after all , liberalism in eastern europe is western import ; after all , it is the result of liberalism in eastern europe . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is also more focused on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscapes of europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s post-communist states , the left is either very weak or totally absent from the political mainstream .
yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s decreasing exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains strong . nowadays , most forecasters are putting the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . if germany can not shift toward a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection is likely to reverse course . as for the eurozone , we appear to have been excessively optimistic , even when we foresaw declining potential growth to 1.5 % . but that is a big “ if . ”
in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would avoid erupting into the funding cost entailed by turkey ’s eu accession . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workers ’ would most likely be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long period of transition , perhaps not before 2025 . in fact , immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . in fact , given the expected upswing in turkey ’s economy and its decreasing birthrate , experts predict a figure of about 2.7 million migrants by that point . the size of these transfers , however , would depend on the eu ’s financial policies at the time of admission , the outcome of accession negotiations and economic developments in turkey .
the later evangelist john concludes that , because jews deny the christian messiah they have to become “ the sons of the devil . ” matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie explaining to the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples have come at night and stole him away while we slept . ” more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those refusing to embrace jesus like their messiah -- as the culprits for the killing of deities and controls world finance . anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew , in which a jewish mob cheers for christ ’s execution , and voluntarily accepts enduring guilt : “ its blood be on us and on our children . ” more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those refusing to embrace jesus like their messiah -- as the perpetrators of a crime that lives in each generation .
encouraged by the illusion of a powerful reserve-currency position , the thai central bank took charge of speculators -- and lost . by the time the crisis hit , thailand looked like all others reverse in its desperation to the imf . thailand 's decision last may to lower interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against the bhat , the opening salvo in the midst of a crisis . but , with too much macho , too much politics and provincialism , reform never occurred . thailand 's decision last may to lower interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against the bhat , the opening salvo in the crisis .
that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well endowed : they can arouse public conscience , but they can not formally engage with governments . only other eu governments are capable of doing just that . hence , the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests have extracted , the hour of governments have arrived . but how can those concessions , given duress ? it was not least through the efforts of protest movements that france has now made concessions on both counts .
as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher-level learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians study such subjects . but , with the regime forced to dedicate more resources to silencing informed reports , the majority will suffer economically . compounding the challenge , the cohorts of informed elites in russia are increasing . most russians will not become well-informed overnight .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that it “ allow china to weaponize the renminbi . ” many are wondering whether china will react to trump ’s trade war by threatening a full-scale currency war . and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate a currency for strategic ends , is their ability to do so if it is so desired . if it does , the world should be calling its bluff . china ’s monetary policy came to the fore that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods .
in the us , for example , america ’s foreign-born share of the population has risen from 5 % in 1960 to about 14 % today . but this obviously is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . beyond contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , immigrants also often complement native-born skills , helping them to earn more . my professional focus is on economics , which is why i emphasized the role of growth . the fact that the developed world is changing culturally also matters .
the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the student movement leader at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the top organizers of the first intifada , resulting in his deportation of israel at the end of the 1980 ’s . having been left the scene , palestinian leaders born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons will most likely fill the vacuum . that shift , in turn , clears the way for generational change in leadership , and , more important , the transformation of post-oslo politics , all the more so . the plo ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas , who have led the liberation organization from exile and returned home to the oslo accords – has dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . in 2002 , it was arrested and sentenced to a long prison term on charges that it had led a second intifada that began two years earlier , ordering some of its military strikes .
judging from putin ’s most recent address to the parliament , his regime is acutely conscious of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . that will n’t be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of bureaucracy and the security apparatus . the regime is likely to attempt to counter this eruption of nationalism , while retaining its strongly statist rhetoric . but , to defeat the far right ’s far right , putin ’s ’s regime will be hard-pressed to embrace its stand on more or less liberal ideological ground . these are the keys in the nationalist channel that appears to appeal to russians nowadays .
last year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to achieve taiwan ’s “ nuclear-free ” by 2025 . that new load would easily replace the country ’s electrical generated by the country ’s six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is just equally committed ; now , she has made no difference . today , co2 and natural gas provide more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . tsai has called for the share of renewables to rise to 20 % over the next eight years , with capacity coming mainly from solar and offshore wind .
as production of such fuels grows , so will we require policies , programs , and capabilities to ensure that they are deployed sustainably , without distort food markets , or undermine food security , which will always be the first priority . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on fuel derived from peanues ’ oil . henry ford once scour hopes to purchase land tracts to plant sugar cane , convinced that the united states would not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels or dependency implicit in importing petroleum . the pioneers of biofuels would probably be surprised at how little to contribute to global fuel supplies today . only in recent decades have biofuels regained its original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate incomes , and mitigate the dependency of which ford has warned .
others have fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as a barbarian society surviving on horse sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd georgia , a future prime minister , told audiences that he was stoking fears of german saeas than it was for its german naval navy . in towns , displays in shop windows have illustrated the costs of us tariffs to ordinary consumers . many britons believed in a “ free trade empire . ” one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain ten years ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotion and identity , rather than only their rational interest in more wealth and inexpensive food . the liberals and the radicals organized show , color posters , and political entertainment .
it turns member countries into debtors and their creditors into one another , stoking even more animosity . an inordinately lax regulatory environment has proven lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and bank bonds . when the asset bubbles burst , italy left in its wake woefully expensive economies that had lost its competitiveness . europe now should use calm among the storm fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union from the ground up . attempting to create the european equivalent of the us dollar and impose fiscal union atop , despite the absence of a common european state .
because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness can be lessened . indeed , the latter now stand at over 15 % of gdp . rival asian economies will have to be stabilized before they can put pressure on their exports aggressively . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the advent of floating exchange rates . a hits china ’s exports are likely to take as a result of the region ’s currency depreciations , though unlikely to be felt immediately .
moreover , there are real disagreements within the american bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses for america ’s own interests . for europeans , this state of affairs is worrying about two counts . operationally , it is restricted to isr , and it is not involved in ground troops . symbolically , it implies backing from the initial and significant efforts undertaken by others . for europeans , this situation is worrying about two counts .
even so , argentina went bankrupt because affluent argentines spirited their assets out of the country and so outside the eu , whereas poor argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to satisfy foreign creditors ' claims . this analysis suggests that the “ excess [ current-account ] imbalances ” procedure to be introduced as part of the ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes the right course . on the contrary , when a country 's foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions such as pension funds , they can be singled out and taxed . the private sector held large foreign assets , whereas the government held around equal amounts to foreign liabilities . this is mostly the case in europe .
barcelona ’s stars , real madrid , chile , and milan are household names . disappointed by their political leaders , algerians stems largely from their shared soccer love . but exposure to foreign tv stations also means looking toward escaping movements in italy , france , or germany as their sole hope for jobs and decent lives . will the coming months bring genuine change in algeria ? will social and economic reforms be implemented to ensure the country ’s equitable distribution of its oil and gas riches ?
in short , as greenspan departs , he leaves behind an america burdened by high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability . the most likely explanation comes from a mix of two , both for he and bush , who pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy that calls to use tax cuts to reduce revenues , thereby compelling the public sector to become downsize . it remains to be seen what led greenspan to advocate a tax cut . lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a housing price bubble . was this massive economic missteps or was currying favor with the bush administration ?
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants toward europe . a historic drought may create the preconditions for syria ’s civil war . land-related issues will continue to threaten global stability , especially as the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 .
on its own , it would represent a smart step in the right direction – one that will n’t invite a “ yellow vest ” reaction . in short , a “ carbon dividend ” would distribute money from predominantly wealthy high polluters to predominantly low – and low levels of polluters , all while cutting their co2 emissions . because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita income to a carbon dividend . but do n’t let anyone say that this is a silver bullet . because they run far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita income to a carbon dividend .
on the contrary , she promotes an independent ecb , and has let germany ’s trade unions and companies know that they will have to live with hard currency and anti-inflationary monetary policies . this is not to say that merkel is a free-market free market capitalist – there is little evidence of this . rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing europe and the ecb sends the flawed signals . a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive of political leadership , just as accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel does not make her speeches attacking a strong europe and the european central bank ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s price stability mandate .
because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it worries the rule of law , integration , and peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ interests . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to security . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a bad idea ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu – particularly in trump ’s age . just when there can be no french security without germany , no german security can exist without poland .
indeed , very few of those receiving ect also do not also receive benzodiazepines , causing major autobiographical memory problems when given alone and with a antipsychotic drug that causes difficulty with word lists or telephone figures , as well as other comparable issues . but the critics have found it hard to demonstrate memory or other cognitive problems that endure beyond three months . there is no controversy that ect can produce a short-term memory loss for short-term memory . the same is true of antidepressants , and the same is true of the problem . nor can the enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and inability to remember lists be readily attributed to ect , because ect is rarely given on its own .
if the cac demanded , say , 75 % of holders of each bond class , the vultures could purchase 26 % of only one bond class and block the entire restructuring . so why should we think that they would suffice in a much more complicated world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? cacs , in particular , suffer from the “ aggregation ” problem . but no government has found cacs adequate to adjudicate domestic restructurings . if they had been , no domestic bankruptcy law would have required them to set out issues like precedence and fair treatment .
moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . the eu should strengthen the case for open dialogue and hard bargaining – precisely what has long been sorely lacking in western policy toward ukraine ’s crisis and toward nato ’s post-soviet eurasian region . a quick deal will not be possible at all . we have arrived at that point precisely because both russia and the west have spent more than ten years seeking unilateral advantages and eschewing negotiated compromises . holding talks in the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial political capital investments for sustained periods .
america ’s federal government has expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s ’s ’s ’s new global hegemony and prosperity for its growing middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal to promote unionization and home ownership ) . the us government has assumed a greater role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and welfare . but it also represents the global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense and research and development . in contrast to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience has instilled in its citizens and leaders a commitment to liberty , including free markets , and local autonomy . america ’s federal government has expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by a new deal to promote unionization and home ownership ) .
abdelhamid abaaoud , who headed the november 2015 paris attacks , has claimed that he is one of europe ’s 90 isis-trained terrorists . so far , isis has been hit by france , along with turkey , where it is among the hardest . the precise number of european fighters that have received training from isis and returning home remains unknown . france has been suffering more than 230 deaths and some 700 injured , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and some 900 injuries . isis has routinely trained 400-600 fighter jets for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter-security , and forgery .
in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which are key to boosting girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . to account for learning crises in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to open its doors to innovative ngo models such as the brac ’s community-based learning program . but a shortage of qualified female teachers is making scaling up such efforts difficult . women account for just one-third of all teachers in afghan primary and secondary schools , owing partly to extraordinarily low levels of female literacy .
in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflected a longstanding use of state expenditures to fund the regime ’s ’s allies and clients , rather than benefiting the entire populace . such regimes have dominated each country ’s private sector through cronyism , not only to extract and distribute rents to its client states , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that could fund opposition movements . as a result , capital and skills have been misallocated , the business climate has deteriorated and competition , innovation , and growth has suffered . and protesters , spurred by economic grievances , have been emboldened to improve broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state ( isis ) and the wind-down of the war in syria . such economic shocks have exposed each country ’s enormous budgetary costs .
this raises the old question about whether a currency union can function without a fiscal union , or at least a stronger and more binding fiscal rule ( maastricht treaty ’s deficit commitments are too easily breached ) . will the euro ’s second decade prove to be as successful as the first one ? to this , we must add coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies as deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to national guarantees and pan-european insurance . at present , it boldly underscores the disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses now being embraced by european governments . but reducing flexibility in responding to economic shocks will certainly test it .
but imagine a world in which textbooks are tailored to a range of learning styles and translated into myriad languages . nowadays , pluto remain on the list of science textbooks , pluto whom i know how long it will take for it to be eliminated . such a world was only a decade or two ago , when it entered into a new era . but imagine a world in which textbooks are tailored to a range of learning styles and translated into myriad languages . today , language barriers impede many immigrant parents ’ ability to assimilate their children with homework , because texts are made only in english .
one powerful school of thought that emerged almost immediately after the killings began in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders were reckless . by provoking a regime , the students derailed any chance of a slow political reform that their more moderate elders had painstakingly set in train . indeed , so proponents of that school often add , china was not yet ready for democracy . it was meant to be obvious to them that a violent crackdown was unavoidable . if only they could take center stage in china .
it is too late now for non-military instruments of coercion to have much effect , even though the security council ’s threats to the international criminal court ’s prosecution for atrocity crimes – including possible use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . delivery issues abound in war zones , but not everywhere . yet international donors are dragging their feet both in meetings of existing pledges and making new ones . and all aid in the world will not stop the killings at all . yet international donors are dragging their feet both in meeting existing pledges and making new ones .
for example , when trump calls to reduce american military involvement in the middle east , he is merely echoing obama . yet , by reneging on the nuclear deal with iran , trump has been making war in the region all the more likely . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is practically driving them into china ’s arms . trump , for his part , ’s ’s ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . and , by going out of his way to ease north korea ’s own international isolation , while getting almost nothing in return , he has consolidated china ’s standing in east asia .
every country could form a council that represents public entities ( transport , public works , customs ) , and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to lower logistics costs . merchandise need not pass on capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries combined cost increases . it is only as vital , albeit for committees to evolve along similar lines in each country ’s provincial regions . communications between users and government services are vital to achieving any real improvements . regions then may be turned to growth engines .
as we saw ten years ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of insecurity can become fragile and break down , imposing high costs on societies . the idea of a temporary greek exit from the euro is especially ill-advised . the fdp ’s ideas have broad support in germany and among german economists ( and it is shared by a number of other european economists ) . but the policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient , resilient financial markets may prove to be dangerous when applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . and they adhere to positions taken by germany ’s finance ministry under previous administrations .
will it revert to robust growth or will the us experience an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i have cast a vote for the latter , particularly given that the enormous legacy of debt is likely to dampen enthusiasm for big stimulus . many wall street financiers , having received their gobs of monetary money , are returning to their fiscal religiosity to low deficits . meanwhile , consumption and investment will be slashed further . without massive stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , the us will face a vicious negative downward spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , which push stock prices down and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence , and weaken banks .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers even more could double the average incomes of the world ’s poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years . yet , in rich countries today , sentiment has turned toward free trade . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be addressed better ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits .
muslims in sub-saharan africa , however , like the majority of muslims worldwide , exhibit a “ us versus them ” mentality . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ america versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , a notion that the active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . when muslims form a minority , they have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ america versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria .
indeed , piketty argues , our “ obsession with growth ” merely serves as an excuse for doing nothing about health , education , or redistribution . “ one percentage point ” of real growth implies a doubling of the size of your economy every 30 or 35 years . and it is an obsession rooted highly in the current us . piketty sees this as grounds for “ grounds ” to be a bit optimistic . “ one percentage point of real growth ” means doubling down on the size of your economy every 30 or 35 years .
as the european commission has warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is both “ an economic competitor ” in pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous official eu communiqués . at the same time , europeans are rightly worried about economic issues . for a good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . the coming year will be critical , too .
a last-minute question to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as america ’s next federal reserve chair . though the democrats have frequently criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . a left-leaning democrat may be doing the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that support massive amounts of fed-financed debt . center-fed-up leftists , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg , may reappoint powell , whom he did a good job , or pick a moderate democratic economist like former fed vice president alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers . trump , who has repeatedly criticized incumbent chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would most likely elect a dovish candidate .
in charles savage ’s recent account for the guantánamo “ uprising , ” ” the new york times times credulous to be reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials displayed on still videotapes . the globe ’s single-source report proved nothing about its brothers , and was unverifiable by other reporters or their citizens , but it suggested a lot , resulting in the spate of equally unverifiable briefings that new york had been targeted . the boston globe , for example , ran an article about a man – identified only by his first name , danny – whom the brothers carjacked ’s brothers carjacked up three days after the attacks . other recent “ terror ” – related reporting – was as flimsy . the boston globe ’s one-source report proved nothing short of it , and was unverifiable by other reporters or citizens , but it hinted a lot , resulting in a spate of similarly unverifiable reporting that was targeted by new york .
a second study , funded by ifad , and recently released by the international food policy research institute , examines a worldwide economic contraction beginning in rural populations in 2012 . it finds that as a result of a downturn , 38 million more people will stay out of extreme poverty in 2030 than likely would otherwise be , with middle-income farm households particularly at risk . at the same time , these gains have not been evenly split ; indeed , sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than any other region . this poses a grave challenge to the sdgs to end poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” ” ” and reinforces the case for policies and investment specifically targeting rural areas , where poverty-reduction measures are more needed and will have larger effects . rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their future potential .
the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to opt for domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson in mind when it redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 . such policies could then entirely subjugate the requirements of the gold standard and free capital mobility . but , as soon as the political franchise had been enlarged , the working class had organized itself , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic objectives had begun to compete ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . a classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar period .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests , not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their gender – or , more precisely , owing to dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that place them at considerable disadvantage . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . washington , dc , for more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa are working in agriculture .
as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including the ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration may help to mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . after all , a substantial share of the incoming refugee population is said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including difficulties in retooling and re-visiting workers , particularly the long-term unemployed . beyond the need to ease the human misery that fills tv screens and front pages of newspapers lies a imperative not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities presented by migration . though pockets of high unemployment exist today in europe , the ratio of workers to the elderly will decline considerably in the longer run .
digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of employee benefits and responsibilities to employers . and when access to a wide range of valued benefits , from health insurance to pensions , is made conditional on registering their businesses and paying taxes , they would have a powerful reason to formalize their work . for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber and sweden to walks a dog on a rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount to its or her benefits . this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their benefits , and eventually acquire a safety net like that of a full-time contracted worker . with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers would grow .
implementing ( and financing ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . for starters , they must take action to protect the rural environment , ensure animal well-being , and improve education , knowledge transfers , and business training to farmers and agricultural laborers . at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters , by building more efficient and credible protection systems . at the same time , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector can adopt new technologies . for example , they could facilitate the provision of affordable farm insurance or establish some type of mutual-assistance scheme .
frankfurt , the european central bank is at the center of a large , riskless experiment . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments of performance no longer explainable through fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of such a policy are becoming increasingly apparent – and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . key benchmark interest rates have remained near zero for six years now . financial markets are being flooded with a run on liquidity , which has become increasingly important .
we ’ve seen hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone , which enables gestural finger motions ; but in the intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users might barely recognize what it was . designs are being inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction . the telephone dial did not appear until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated “ user interfaces ” interface scientists at western electric considered what the most counterintuitive form should be . when improvements in computer interfaces , form , are the key . it is easy to forget that , years ago , telephones had no buttons or dial – you had to pick up a handset and ask – operator to make that link .
like the more rational and justifiably paranoid of the two , prometheus sought to warn his brother not to embrace zeus ’s dangerous gift . but that remains not the entire story . as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name implies “ foresight , ” ” because it has always been looked ahead , in contrast to his careless brother , epimetheus , whose name implies “ hindsight . ” but epimetheus had been charmed by pandora , and heedlessly welcomed her in her lifetime . it was only later that she had come to recognize her ghastly error .
indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is easy : one can argue that the immediate cause of breakdowns , when examined closely , is not really all that serious . the crux of the problem is that the draft constitution would grant the eu a new , much easier method to accept majority voting at the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each eu member state has some measure of votes , weighted according to the population ; but small countries are protected by having proportionally more votes than large countries do . this system is well known for the well being of the majority vote , and it is known that this system is well known to have qualified majority voting . the odds are that they will do so again .
international prices of maize , rice , and wheat have reached their highest levels in 30 years , triggering political and economic instability – and fueling food riots in many countries . strong economic growth and expansionary monetary policies have boosted the trend further , as has protectionist measures such as export restrictions . several factors have contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , high demand for crops from bio-fuels , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal output . while such factors have undoubtedly placed upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain steep hikes . rome , the price of many staple foods has risen dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries .
indeed , turkey has been offering logistical support to the islamic state , even as it has allowed the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . this highlights yet another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . the similarities to the islamic state ’s views are glaring . erdoğan ’s overtures to restoring turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world are driving him to collude with this challenge to the western-devised regional order . in a youtube video produced after the fighting for mosul dam in august , a group called for the sykes-picot end , ” ” proclaimed the need to redraw the western-imposed political map of the middle east .
so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets act at the behest of the world ’s “ jewry ” argument , which claimed that then-president barack obama was not born into the american people , and therefore did not qualify for a office that he held . but perhaps no current leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabes authoritarian ones , donald trump . since entering the white house , lunacy has only grown stronger . but perhaps no current leader is even more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump . so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets act at the behest of the “ world jewry ” ( his architects , many turkish islamists believe , of the 1908 young turks , and the secular republic that emerges after world war i ) .
the us is also doing its best to ensure that ukraine is attractive to foreign investors . in the energy sector , us president donald trump ’s administration is privatizing state-owned energy distributors . in order to ensure full transparency in its tender process , and to eliminate the problems that have been experienced in the past , western leaders are aiding the us . for the us , the us is also doing its best to ensure that ukraine is attractive to foreign investors . ten leading international energy companies , indeed , will take part in how they are privatized .
of course , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( albeit later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , those countries are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( spurred , like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for returning to government intervention ) . japan ’s air lines that were near bankrupt were rescued by a government bailout , a facility that appears to have become increasingly frequent . even so , chinese policy choices have significantly influenced other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-capitalist ” economic model now mimicked elsewhere in the region . in japan , postal services that were privatized are intended to be re-nationalized and the role of government finance .
since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . but , at least , europe has benefited from falling commodity prices . by contrast , many emerging economies , highly dependent on commodity-exporting earnings , have been stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would materially add to their plight – in some cases disastrously so . without the ecb ’s commitment , to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring in 2012 , there would be persistent risks for the eurozone – and , indeed , the entire edifice of europe ’s – of sovereign-debt defaults .
almost half of the working force is unemployed ; local industries have collapsed . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food aid . and let the world notice that conditions are even worse today than they were at any time since the occupation began . let the world remember that gaza ’s ’s crisis is a manmade catastrophe . water and sewage systems go bankrupt ; dumps are piled in the streets .
new york – europe needs to accept responsibility for its lack of a common asylum policy that has transformed this year ’s growing influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . that precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and the authorities in charge of the rule of law and order . every member state has been selfishly focused on its own interests , often acting against the interests of others . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over flows of asylum-seekers so that they participate in a secure , orderly manner , and at a pace reflecting europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity to absorb them . asylum-seekers have been the primary victims , but they have been the main victims .
despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and expanding his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining rapid growth . of course , whether they are right remains to be seen . at the same time , economists would concede that xi ’s campaign conveniently eliminated many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now enables him to substitute a credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable . this is where the technologists come in , by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential errors .
american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that a monetary union would produce conflict within europe . at that time , he was derided and viewed as the entrenched opposition of the european project . in the 1920 ’s and 1930s , representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at the time , primarily , german reparations ) . unfortunately , his insight was correct : europe ’s countries today are at loggerheads not despite a common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers are a grave danger .
of course , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society . the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between the rich and the poor , the urban and rural population , and the coastal and inland culture are so great that they are far more difficult than they were before for people from variegating walks of life to feel sharing shared plights and goals . whereas the major distinction in the nineteen eighty-four interregels between the rulers and ruled in a brave new world , people are subverted by different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . still , more moments have emerged lately , favoring huxley ’s vision of a political order over that of orwell . whereas the main distinction in nineteen eighty-four interns between rulers and ruled in a brave new world , people are subverted by different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles .
fear of losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what a government can and should do are not immutable . similar trends exist in many european countries as well , particularly in southern europe . this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government ’s role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle in winning over voters . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and change circumstances .
copenhagen – in one of his first public policy pronouncements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama has focused on climate change , and he has made it clear again in poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out a roadmap for global warming . such statements are now commonplace for most of the world ’s political leaders , despite the fact that it neglects to address the question of how much we can do to help america and the world via climate policies versus other policies . according to obama , the few challenges facing america and the world are more pressing than the fight against climate change . unfortunately , both are weak or even misplaced . obama ’s policy outline was presented via videotmar issing to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors of the global warming summit , and it was revealed again in poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out a global warming roadmap .
its “ civilizing ” mission generated a sense of collective purpose , as did the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . before the creation of an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – english built an empire of land , expanding from the south of the british isles to the northwest . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective purpose , as did the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later , through the uncertainty generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ” still , for centuries , the british empire generated wealth , supplied raw materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of the british isles .
freedom of expression and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . whereas a majoritarian government may ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes are stealing from everybody . moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . that is why corruption has provoked mass protests , from bucharest to brasilia in last year ’s france . they are indispensable to the safeguarding of free societies ; they are the most important .
viewed this way , trump ’s ’s isolationism is a populist way of saying that america needs to withdraw from its commitments , which it has neither the power nor the willingness to honor . trump ’s geopolitical and economic opinions should be judged against this background of disenchantment , not the ideal of morality or the economic standard of economics . disengaging peacefully from exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s ’s greatest challenge . in other words , trumpism might constitute a solution to liberalism ’s crisis , not a portent of its disintegration . the pledge to work with russia to end savage conflict in syria is sensible , even as it implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime .
as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework treaty for the conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a nonstarter . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy – not least because of the domestic political pressure he faces . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans regarding a “ united jerusalem ” – a kind of conviction that may yet unravel the israel-palestine peace process . madrid , back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against the then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposed intention to “ divide jerusalem . ” in a last-ditch effort to improve the proposal ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who has largely avoided assuming a proactive role in the peace process – met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his positions .
new haven – last summer marked the beginning of yet another season of futile policymaking by the two world ’s major central banks – america ’s federal reserve and the bank of japan ( boj ) . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies in which they have been tasked . and the alchemists at the boj have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . moreover , their latest moves are reinforcing a deepening of commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies . the fed has done little , which is precisely the problem .
the new nato-russia council , created in rome , offers the us an effective and flexible mechanism for common analysis , common decision-making , and even joint action . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia has much to do with solutions . if the prague summit fails to showcase any grand new initiative , this is simply because the us has already launched a new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . much has already been accomplished over the last six months to transform rome ’s political message into a process of practical cooperation . the new nato-russia council , created in rome , offers the us an effective and flexible mechanism for common analysis , joint decision-making , and even joint action .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind behind the regime ’s ’s terrorist activities outside iran and its puppet master of its proxies across the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders untainted by charges of corruption , he was mooted as a likely presidential candidate in the coming elections . yet , over the last few years , the regime pushed a shrewd public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or the caesar-like warrior-poet . while regime hardliners viewed him as a hero , many iranians who had lost loved ones in a peaceful demonstration or who objects to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora saw it quite differently . so far , iranians were a more complicated figure .
a vocal critic of protectionism will push the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade and investment partnership with the united states . a vocal critic of protectionism , he will push for an eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade and investment partnership with the united states . yet he also wants to boost the us economy with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and expansion of the welfare state . he plans to slash corporate-tax rates from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from wealth taxation . to tiananmen square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver .
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by the feeling that because the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war may cross a list of potential risks . never in modern times , however , has isolationism sheltered america from dangers ; instead , it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . prague : many americans appear to be overtaken by the feeling that , because the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war may cross the list of potential risks . in the end , america pays 1,000 times as much for its initial lack of interest than it would pay for it to become engaged at the outset of crisis or , better still , even earlier .
using the asset-backed security model , the us has recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund , and china , to structure an additional 450 million “ green bond facility ” facility . here , too , there are many other areas in which those committed to combating climate change can follow our example . trafficked out of clogged towns need better public transportation , and funding expanded bus rapid transit ( brt ) systems is a proven way of easing congestion , emissions , and commuting costs . here , too , creative solutions can be found . using the asset-backed security model , the us recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund , and china , to build $ 450 million worth of “ green bond ” facilities .
europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could and i believe would regain control over its borders , allow it to strengthen and enforce needed limits on migration . such an alliance would also enable a new european foreign policy , one that promotes peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that do not depend so heavily on america . the political preconditions of a new grand coalition government would look obvious . once again , eurobonds , green partnerships with china , and europe-wide unity could make all the difference . the spd should hold out for its ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , whereas the cdu/csu holds chancellorship .
that is why it is time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-oriented first and second arrows to a china-oriented third arrow : a new growth strategy . in any case , success in monetary policy is hard to deny it . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the overall effect on monetary policy will diminish , because it increasingly influences pricing power more than output . when sufficient excess supply is available in an economy , promoting supply-side productivity is virtually futile in the absence of demand-side efforts . fortunately , this is precisely what abe intends to do .
now that debate is heating up again in france , as the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has sparked a rage dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . the first is the republican principle , enshrined in the us constitution , that recognizes only citizens , and accepts no distinction among them because of origins , race , or religion . race was always a provocative subject when the science and statistics intersect ’s needs with politics . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government officials are forbidden to gather intelligence about a citizen ’s ethnic or racial origin , whether genuine or supposed when conducting a census or other citizen efforts to gather statistical information . there are two major reasons for this .
eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective mix of smart prevention strategies and a robust law-enforcement regime that underpins the belief that greed can be taught , accountability can be taught , and impunity can be ended . in politics and business alike , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategy to achieve this goal . no one prefers to live in a society where bribes must be paid to ensure basic public services like health care and education . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving this goal .
recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in a society is high , economic performance improves , and lives satisfaction tend to be higher . but the goal is surely worth embracing , owing to evidence ’s overwhelming effect : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of well-being . convincing americans , russians , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may indeed be rampant might seem like a futile task . among other reasons , commercial agreements are much more easily achieved and effectively implemented . in these countries , ministers are forced to resign for petty infractions that would appear trivial in other countries .
the fed has started a process of normalizing monetary policy , but has failed to complete the job , and us president donald trump is doing whatever he can to prevent them from doing so by heckling from the sidelines . as they put it , “ using fiscal adrenaline could be restricted just when it is needed most . ” the three musketeers remain positive about some elements of a post-crisis program . bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and the transparency of derivatives markets ’ derivatives markets materially enhanced . again , again , there is an urgent need for again to again again again – again , when there is relatively little scope for successful monetary policy .
as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s commercial relations with china would be undermined when the dissident liu xiaobo regime was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , refused to allow liu to pick up the prize , and even endangered norway with the financial blows . thus , western diplomats negotiating with china should cite lower-level us officials ’ bluff , and focus on the signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that , ultimately , decisions are made quietly at a higher level by pragmatic leaders , who are indeed susceptible to pressure . human rights watch need not take a back seat to business with china . nonetheless , the same month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies concluded a drilling treaty with norway ’s statoil drilling , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions will not stop business .
with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continued malaise does not bode well for global growth . that means that the system ’s focus must shift away from speculative and proprietary trading toward lending and job creation that implies reforms of financial-sector regulation , as well as antitrust and corporate-governance laws , combined with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged to ensure that markets do not become rigged in casinos . americans should hope for all this , although i am not sanguine about getting a lot of it going on . we might hoped-for america to demonstrate more leadership in reforming the global financial system , by advocating for stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in addressing global warming ; in democratizing international economic institutions ; and providing aid to poorer countries . globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn requiring greater global cooperation .
so it is little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states are vying to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . to be sure , this issue is entirely outside israel ’s own control . indeed , iran is the only country that has openly declares its desire to be annihilated by another un member state . but the stakes are far higher than they were in the seventeenth century , because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to acquire nuclear weapons .
because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem can become more flexible than it was in the past , when the golan was the glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all the way to vladivostok . so , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiation exists alongside the political will on both sides . the strategic significance of the dramatic golan heights , overlooking the majority of northern israeli countries of galilee , is obvious . for israel , the quid pro quo for returning the golan is not a partition of paper with the usual platitudes of peace and coexistence . both parties ’ agendas are , however , different : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of the golan returns , israel wants special , entrenched safeguards regarding its northeastern border security , together with the end of syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon .
while the army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are all too disgruntled by the recent police and military reforms to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces from the provinces staffed by chechen veterans might cherish the agitation of the sticking point to moscow fat cats . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would find it hard to sustain . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for a pay hike that putin ’s united russia party has announced , with much fanfare shortly before the recent duma elections . but , during the same year in china , the protesters in beijing were crushed by troops from inner mongolia , who failed to understand mandarin and had little sympathy for the big-city dwellers . in the fall of 1989 , east germans joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall .
that is why europe ’s leaders have taken the ambitious steps that they have made . not moving forward to europe would establish europe for an even more disruptive crisis . the crisis of 1992 demonstrated that the existing system was volatile . but not the proceeding would also have been a disaster ; it would have been a political crisis . rather than moving forward , bank recapitalization and government bond purchases would have similarly led to catastrophe .
in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as us president , he pointed out that he was from hawaii , and was proud to be “ america ’s first pacific president . ” two years later , then-us secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america ’s pacific century , ” ” ” indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy . to be sure , the us claims , too , that it knows all about democracy itself . but its diplomatic cognitive dissonance – criticizing the egyptian regime , while continuing to supply it with military hardware – can serve only to undermine bilateral ties , just as america ’s approach to musharraf ’s regime has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such a foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east .
but they should also emphasize that war is not the only and certainly not the automatic “ serious consequence ” to follow from the non-compliance of iraq . mr. bush ’s international credibility , they should emphasize , does not suffer through avoiding war but gains further through the control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military efforts . of course , some members of america ’s nato allies are better suited than others to get those points along with their audience across the atlantic . alas , german governments , by their behavior in chancellor schroeder ’s re-election campaign last september , have maneuvered themselves out of having any remaining authority over the issue . to give additional credence to their praise , they should leave no doubt that if war becomes the only alternative that they would stand with america .
instead of investing in terraced fields , planting trees and purchasing high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize their short-term gains . this is especially true of female farmers , who are facing an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs systems . studies show that there can be no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without enhancing land rights , particularly for women . insecure about their ability to control their farms in the coming season , farmer planning horizons shrinks . africa ’s smallholder family farmers – already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations – are facing an even greater obstacle to bureaucratic hurdles : no paper to show that the land they are calling home is theirs theirs .
coupled with all of this are northern european discontent with central bankers , explicitly with the ecb and the euro . but this does not seem to be what german voters want ; indeed , this makes the complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable . it is not that the end of europe ’s monetary union is on the agenda ; it is only that people have started to think about possible low-probability futures , in which the exit of emu could be placed on the agenda . my view is that germany would be better off in ten years under more neo-liberal policies . that is enough to shake asset prices globally .
its organizers , of course , are loath to describe it as a sunni party . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-spot finisher , maliki ’s state of the rule of law coalition . the organizers , of course , are loath to describe it as a sunni party . but , within iraq , there are very few people , including sunni or shia , who see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to reviving sunni leadership . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-spot finisher of maliki ’s ruling coalition .
all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , europe ’s entire political experiment . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect a merger , such as with commerzbank , another german institution . but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” ” ” with too many branch branches , too few deposits , and funding costs far surpass those of their more prosperous peers . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own reckoning , will require at least one-third of european banks to close or unification . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect a merger , like that of commerzbank , another german institution .
none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks alike . they should care to avoid a real-estate bubble , because real estate represents an enormous share of overall wealth and a crucial source of collateral in finance . but the powerful rise of low quality leveraged lending should also be a concern . today , the febrile political environment is certain to streamline matters . monetary tightening may slow growth temporarily ; preventing bush-era growth is notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms needed to ensure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly ever popular .
in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift dynasty , the british government adopted a fresh approach to debt . but the european central bank , notably the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against reducing debt – a case that is both politically significant and profoundly moral . many economists have argued this case on the basis of arithmetic calculation . indeed , the principle of not reneging on public debt is deeply intertwined with the evolution of the rule of law , representative government , and modern democracy . so perhaps the eu should be a good idea to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed .
but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , and many republicans would have embraced a disrupter , for example , a disciple of ron “ end the fed ” paul – or yet another conservative preaching a return to pre-world war i gold standard . unfortunately , the battle over the fed ’s independence is far from over . trump may simply be keeping his powder dry until a real conflict erupts . in fact , some conservative republicans object to yet another of his appointments , marvin goodwin friend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a fresh approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next deep recession or financial crisis . and , though someday , the fed will almost certainly embrace this advice ( i have also published on the issue ) , fareed friend steve jobs , for example ) , barely surviving america ’s senate banking committee .
yet india continues to face many challenges : almost 300 million people living in abject poverty ; the spread of naxalite uprisings ; the dangers of the terrorist attacks of ala mumbai ; and the sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage a rising middle class ’s expectations for improved infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? these problems will not be solved overnight , but nor will they resolve them . yet , beyond that , india continues to face many challenges : almost 300 million people living in poverty ; the spread of naxalite uprisings ; the dangers of the terrorist attacks of ala mumbai ; and the sprawling urban slums .
the proliferation of security lapses means that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to cast their first stone at a company that is violated . finally , the ap is unlikely to face up to financial sanctions for that error . because few mechanisms can block hoaxed tweets ’ proliferation , and given a high-profile response that successful hackers may expect , twitter will remain a malicious hoaxes ’ vehicle , even as technological barriers force attacks become increasingly contentious . empirically , few firms gain this right : america ’s ’s ’s national public radio and bbc have both recently hacked sea levels , whereas mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . lawsuits for losses stemming from a hoaxed tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles .
the new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our insights , as well as giving us an even greater cause for concern . by resorting to cutting-edge climate models , researchers are not only detecting long-term climate action , but also attributing at least some of the extreme events to human causes . detection means determining whether extreme events are part of routine weather fluctuations or signs of deeper , long-term changes . a number of past studies have shown that scientists can indeed detect prolonged climate change in the rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and powerful storms . attribution implies a capacity to assign the likely causes of events to human activity or other factors .
if it works , what will emerge will be pledges from the g-20 countries to commit to policies that are globally beneficial – on the condition that others stick to their commitments . rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative ; it will be the right one . a peer review process to which the g-20 countries have agreed is a critical component of a rebalancing program , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy would be identified , evaluated , and assembled . the us can reduce its deficits more quickly than it would in the non-cooperative case , but only if surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings . the international exchange-rate system , at least partly , is broken .
in particular , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren , on my opinion , the two strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge us president donald trump – have called for cracking down on big tech ’s tech firms . but the solutions that are being proposed , including by legal scholars like lina khan , tend to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived . and , indeed , taming large tech has become an important issue ahead of the united states ’ 2020 presidential election . given the power of major tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention .
on one recent trip , i met rasmata , a young mother telling me that , thanks to her savings group ’s safety net , she was management to support her family despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent deaths , and lingering droughts . she was diversifying her incomes , governing her finances , and even accepting climate-smart farming techniques . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial circumstances or education , deserve to be ascribed to her them . the best part was that she described her as hard-working , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious woman . during each of my field visit , i marveled at how these efforts affect women ’s ’s lives .
as anyone receiving investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” that reality implies another compelling case for divestment . if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate this possibility for a moment . stock values in fossil-fuel industries , which are based on the assumption that companies will be able to extract and burn all familiar reserves , plummet . investing in such companies , it turns out , turns out , is extraordinarily risky .
after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the ensuing soviet collapse , that g2 world gave way to the g1 + n order in which all other countries ( n ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was the era of liberal rules-based multilateralism . democratic and market-based capitalism had seemingly triumphed in what francis fukuyama described as the “ end of history . ” america had broadly championed that order – the iraq war as a clear exception , and , like most countries – benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new elaborate value chains . only in the late 1970s and 1980s did it become apparent that the soviet system could not compete for market capitalism .
addressing russia ’s economic grievances will not be easy . instead , after four years of declining real incomes , the authorities have announced deeply unpopular pension reforms that included rising retirement ages . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . with few rallying public opinion , putin may well have apparently decided that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under assault . russia ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western sanctions over crimea .
this stands in stark contrast to other aspects of the european union ’s agenda . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing just that ; and at amsterdam last year , they ostensibly strengthened those institutions . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing just that ; and at amsterdam last year , they ostensibly strengthened those institutions . likewise , the goal of economic and monetary union and the single currency , enacted at maastricht in 1991 , is a courageous , even revolutionary program ; some critics tell it reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will remain a reality in just two months to come . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress .
only the explicit , up-front endorsement of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international support that military action – except clear self-defense – demands . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not , especially on this late stage , alter a fundamental perception of this kind of intervention , both inside and outside the arab world . this latest point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . this applies to the actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances like nato . but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism .
to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; on the contrary , it is determined to fight it until after the end . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a obviously predictable result . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat to military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a obviously predictable result . to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive , but it is determined to fight until after the end .
in newsrooms , from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is on the rise . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenues . governments have played a major role in domestic media coverage for decades , using regulation of broadcasting frequencies and licensing requests to shape the market . yet , in recent years , governments have also stepped up their budget clout . unfortunately , while this windfall may be putting more programming on the air , it merely deepens the industry ’s woes .
as a result , international law has come to recognize the “ right to protect ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own peoples , despite the fact that enforcement remains a big step forward . the next major step was the establishment of the concept of humanitarian interventions following the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . finally , the same developments in us politics and international law led to the establishment of the international court of justice . with its establishment , resulting from its long and appalling experience , the fundamental idea of modernity – that the strength of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of higher law , thus placing individual rights above national sovereignty – took a big step forward . this evolution has been anything but accidental .
according to the tft approach , a bilateral game should start with collaboration : if the other player behaves cooperatively , so should you . the winner – the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome – was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . axelrod held tournaments among major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most efficient approach in a recurrent game of prisoner ’s dilemma . of course , when another player is working , it might be tempting to make a mistake to raise your own payoff and potentially even secure a windfall . only if the other player ’s flaws are held by , say , the beginning of non-cooperative behavior should you do the same .
notwithstanding rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . sadly , however , the economic trajectories that the us congress is plotting , although this may well boost short-term growth , are finally on a collision course with both equity and environmental sustainability . most of the world ’s malnourished children are living in india . the bjp ’s strategy of calculating the us congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india badly misfired . as for threats from the far right , anyone has hoped for peace in the region , decreasing tensions within india among religious communities are being undermined by the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) .
admitting that the monetarist cure was insufficient would require mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age . and , indeed , there can be no denying the fact that friedman ’s ’s ’s ’s cure proved to be an insufficient response to the great recession – strongly suggesting that it would have fallen similarly brief during the great depression . friedman ’s dominance at the dawn of the great recession had less to do with evidence supporting them than with the fact that the sciences of economics were all too often tainted by policy . in this scenario , contamination was so wrong that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and applied keynesian and minskyite policies on a large enough scale to address the problems presented by the great recession . but it is relatively clear that even during the 1970s , there was insufficient empirical evidence in favor of friedman ’s ideas to justify their growing dominance .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been mired in turmoil . on the one hand , the euro has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export economy , from speculative attacks and bouts of currency volatility . rising intra-eu tensions have been plainly contradictory . on the other hand , the second stage of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles ’ achilles heel : the lack of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis have been plainly contradictory .
sudan ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous repercussions for sudan ’s peoples and throughout the region , present a real possibility . after all , the regime ’s repressive nature in khartoum lies at the root of the many conflicts that have tearing the country apart . moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the objective of destabilizing the largely christian south . after all , the regime ’s repressive nature in khartoum lies at the root of the many conflicts that have tearing the country apart .
the second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage ( ccs ) . but that technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a massive scale . one approach is to capture co2 at a coal-fired power plant as a coal-fired power plant . another is to capture it directly from the air , using specially designed chemical processes . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but there are only a few remaining areas around the world where it could be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . )
it is important to differentiate between the two sources of concern for pay in financial firms . under the post-crisis financial order , governments need to assume the role of surveillance and adjustment in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur . one set of concerns arises from shareholder perspective . figures recently released by new york attorney general , andrew cuomo , indicate that nine large financial firms paid their employees aggregate compensation exceeding $ 600 billion in 2003 , a period in which their aggregate market capitalization has substantially declined . such patterns may raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures are not well designed to serve their own interests .
it is time to call a “ spade ” a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly in charge . but when democratic senator diane feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , republicans overwhelmingly opposed it . some republican senators have now drawn praise for indicating that they would back the facility ’s prohibition . it is time to call a spade out a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly responsible . some republican senators have now drawn praise for indicating that they would support a device ban .
by 2000 , that share fell to 22 % , and by 2010 , to 11 % , with well over 3 % living in outright destitution . as a result , demands for more opportunity and better living conditions have grown louder . today , chile is very different from chile in nearly 20 years ago . the 29 % of the population left behind by poverty now constitute a incipient middle class with new aspirations and aims . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to improved health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the most important factor driving social advancement .
true , clinton offers numerous programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is little theme for her pudding . ( the first attempt in iowa , where she spoke to around eight people in closed sessions , did not work out very well . ) this impressive , remarkably smart woman simply does not have the sense of politics that she is demanded at the top . clinton is the only person known to launch her campaign twice ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is little theme in her pudding . success in us presidential politics requires superb intuition , quick on one ’s legs , and above all else – a compelling rationale for running .
only a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , had a senior staff telling anyone to listen that europe ’s entire sovereign-debt panic had turned out to be a tempest in a teapot . even for greece , the imf argued , the debt dynamics were not a serious concern , owing to expectations of growth and reform . using slick powerpoint presentations with degrees like “ default ” in today ’s advanced economies : pointless , undesirable , and unlikely , ” the fund tried to persuade investors that eurozone debt had been solid as a rock . as the situation deteriorated , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its beliefs about the market , as it did , to adopt a more cautious tone . never mind the obvious flaw in the fund ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s logic , namely that countries like greece and portugal are facing policy and carry risks far more akin to emerging markets than to genuinely advanced economies like germany and the united states .
one way to make such policy indicators more directly relevant would be to track the ways that people use their time and attach well-being measures to each . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically exhibit a score of six or seven on a 0-10 scale . another alternative , supported by a large and growing body of research into economics and psychology , is direct measurement of well-being or happiness . but this option has several drawbacks , including the fact that wellbeing indicators are changing little over time . surveys of reported wellbeing levels are now available for a wide range of countries , and the idea of cutting back to chase them through this as a metric of prosperity has strong advocates .
her “ right to purchase ” policies triggered an upward spiral in house prices that spurred households to take on more and more debt . the shift toward finance that thatcher has promoted heightened inequality and forced the economy to become much more volatile . if this is a metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was a failure . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which de-regulated financial services , made risky municipal behavior in the norm . such reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations – particularly those pertaining to advanced economies – have little impact ( putting it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical fringe , owing to its talented and dedicated staff , as well as its unique connections to countries . but its forward-looking analyses have all too often proven backward-looking , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to considerable revision . yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it has validated the lead in shining greater light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change .
indeed , the predominant view among arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ capacity to crack down on their conviction that islam confines all arab women to the same extent when in reality they experience very different conditions . this is particularly urgent , because the positions of women are one of the central benchmarks that the outside world and particularly the west are using to assess the arab world . and , sadly , such assessments tend to focus on the supposed immobilism that derives from islamic norms that obscures the knowledge of the real change that is taking place . the west thus risks depriving itself of an important key to understanding the arab world today and , as this occurs tomorrow . this is particularly urgent , because the positions of women are one of the key benchmarks that the outside world and particularly the west are using to assess the arab world .
riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with his three kinds of competing to define the region ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s future . according to the lebanese publisher , samar abou-zeid , by contrast , religious books are among the most downloaded literature works in the arab world . taking advantage of their capacity to massachusetts produce and instantly disseminate ancient religious texts and western-originating literature , the two camps struggle for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . ironically , it is the combination of enhanced literacy and modern technology that is fanning the flames of conflict between the two kinds of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that look to inherited rituals , morals , and guidance values ; inner-directed cultures in which are behaving according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that have reacted predominantly to external norms and peer influences .
until recently , there was little reason to ask such a question . china had overtaken japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or above three decades . hundreds of millions of chinese had gone to the middle class , including the us . china ’s ’s ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or more over three decades . china ’s ’s ’s ’s economy grew at an average annual rate of 10 % , or above three decades .
furthermore , there is a strong case for american national security to improve if , say , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world are taught how america has helped its countries thrive , rather than trying to hold them where they are poor for as long as possible . the reason that this narrative is wrong is straightforward . there are good reasons why america ’s adopted policies encouraging poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . in helping to make mexico , brazil , and other developing countries grow , america is gaining richer trading partners . after all , the us has established permanent normal trade relations with china , refusing to label its government a currency manipulator .
as is often the case in europe , differences among eu member states are pronounced : the share of monetary transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . according to the as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , nearly 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and , in france , more than half of all eu payments come in cash . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong – and it is becoming stronger . there is one more fundamental problem with arguments for a caucasus society : most people , at least , do not want it . but it is an open question whether an increasingly fragmented digital-payment sector will help customers more than companies offer payment solutions .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . earlier this month , jihad ambushed an egyptian army base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers and sped to the frontier with israel . but egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s ’s civilian military coup , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the army ’s leader , has failed to diminish the importance of the trouble there . one vehicle has failed to crack down on a border crossings ; another penetrated israeli territory , before halving israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) .
but , as countries relying largely on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from a protracted and escalating geopolitical conflict in which they would come under growing pressure to choose sides . a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the status quo . but they also know that bilateralism – small countries attempting to negotiate a level playing field with superpowers – is not an option . to defend their own interests , they need to ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated regulations that default on issues like subsidies to soes .
in kenya , all public-sector officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies are obligated to sign performance contracts with the central government , in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates , explain how these are being integrated into policy and development plans . moreover , a few countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments deploy new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . grassroots assessments of progress against such indicators are intended to complement a government-led reporting mechanism . finally , some african “ 16 champions ” are making the goal of central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all public-sector officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies have an obligation to sign performance treaties with a central government in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates , explaining how these are being integrated into policy and development plans .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s great political-economic problems . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 would have done the job there . it is hard , to say the least , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years , that would transfer any significant portion of the wealth of today ’s affluent nations to today ’s impoverished peoples . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 . but the alternatives that would have made the south richer at the price of reducing the north ’s wealth demand for a wholesale revolution in human psychology .
other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the world ’s official creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion . nml capital and the rest of the vultures comprise just 1 % of official creditors , but would receive a combined total of $ 1.5 trillion . every argentine might thus owe more than $ 3,500 to more than $ 3,500 of average annual per capita income . and , because the debt restructuring stipulated that all creditors who accepted it could demand the same terms that holdouts receive , argentina could be on the hook for $ 140 billion more . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy .
major international financial institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and regional development banks – have been forced to work hard to put on a sound footing for the twenty-first century . so far , the un ’s authority has frayed . until we reverse the downward trend in multilateralism , governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges will not improve . business may moan and media may carp , but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems is more – or , at least , better – government , not less . it will be essential after bali in order to reflect serious next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system .
getting into debt was long associated with profligacy or fecklessness . indeed , it often amounted to more than a point of honor : failure to repay debt on a time landed a borrower in jail . economists and moralists were united in believing that you were in fact supposed to spend less than you earn – in order to “ save ” for the proverbial rainy day or old age . the same attitude guided by institutional debt . and , if a person became indebted , the point of honor was to pay back when it came , through asset sales , reduced consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three .
though china ’s ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) , following the end of 1989 , had been able to subordinate ideology to wealth creation . more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . geopolitically , the post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating a sinister empire , and opening the way for china to advance its own interests globally . that example , in turn , had a constructive influence on the survival of communist parties in asia and beyond .
in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after whom morsi had resigned in france , saying that this would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively , by promising to respect minority rights . likewise , rather than condemning the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics by the taliban in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria and al-shabaab in somalia , as well as destroying sufi shrines in mali by nasser , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . developments following the arab spring may provide some indication of the prospect of religious tolerance . while none of these groups represents a majority , they do exert considerable influence , and presumably believes that they are acting in the majority ’s interest . yet successive actions designed to give him an unprecedented executive fear of these early positive steps .
june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; nearly every chinese person knows that formal re-evaluation is only a matter of time . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably deng xiaoping and others of the party ’s elders – have died down . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been split on an event ever since it occurred . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; nearly every chinese person knows that formal re-evaluation is only a matter of time . that group will unite behind the forces of democratization , both at home and abroad , to establish a truly democratic system .
by joining the euro , italy has given up monetary sovereignty over an outside , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . it has also committed concrete commitments with respect to the behavior of its fiscal policies , although such constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . such obligations place real limits on italy ’s authorities ’ macroeconomic policy choices . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he has overstepped his authority , allowing financial markets to veto the selection of a minister by a popularly elected government . in particular , the lack of domestic currency means that italians can not choose their own inflation target or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies .
in the murky , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning lies not so much for democratic liberalism , but for believers to unite behind one true faith . in pakistan , the extremist now wears the islamic garb and stands for the creator , both for the faith and for the theocratic order . once again , we are seeing how misplaced western national priorities can bring ruin to a non-western nation . in any contest of ideas , the extreme will usually triumph over moderate ones . in pakistan , the extremist now wears the islamic garb and stands for the creator , both for faith and for the theocratic order .
japan , for example , has relatively strict laws protecting wildlife rights . such laws are analogous to the regulations implemented by the most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which requires that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when they have their throats cut and complain . there are strong grounds for believing that they should be . for example , most mammals must be butted by a method that minimizes their pain and distress as much as possible . these include regulations that are similar to those implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which requires that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when they have their throats cut and complain .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently understated his skills of political communications , perhaps because he is so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . both fdr and reagan , after all , have been known as “ great communicators . ” both fdr and reagan , after all , were well known as “ great communicators . ” though large segments of the american population loathe them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , seeking to appeal to the center . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign address ; and , after taking office , a series of fake statements and provocative executive orders undercutting his credibility with the center but strengthened it with his base .
far more important to achieve price stability has been the advent of a modern , independent central bank , the facility that helped lower the levels of inflation worldwide . yes , a few places , such as venezuela , still have triple-a digit price growth , but are now rarities . greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poor african countries were able to keep inflation well within a single digits , one can presume that greece would be able to govern as well . indeed , if southern european countries had kept their own currencies low , perhaps they had never dug into a massive debt hole and would have had the resort to partial default via inflation . greece ’s modern independent central bank has been the advent of an facility that has helped dramatically lower inflation levels worldwide .
speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump ” ” ” peaked in early september , when the us president abruptly cut deals with a democratic congress party of congress . cohn was widely viewed as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices and sought to succeed janet yellen as america ’s chair of the us federal reserve . but problems can arise when a president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn was widely viewed as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices and sought to succeed janet yellen as chair of america ’s federal reserve . cohn ’s sin was to let it be known publicly that he had nearly resigned following violence in charlottesville , va.
mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries suffering from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and environmental challenges . but the risks are as real as the potential rewards . on may 17 , the advocacy organization oxfam america has sued american securities and exchange commission to issue a last-minute rule carrying part of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reforms and consumer-protection act . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to corporate governance – is critical to realizing the industry ’s ’s ’s ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse .
links to west africa are close and going back over the past century , with nearly 50,000 indians , or india ’s people living in the region . whereas exit controls are taking place in all international airports in affected regions , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but may be up to 21 days ) implies that someone with no symptoms from a recent infection could make a trip to india without triggering alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi airport has indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government demands , have been loosely enforced , with multiple passengers exiting a terminal holding completed ebola cards that were meant to passed on to immigration officials . india ’s government , it seems , is unlikely to let tabs on all arrivals from west africa . indeed , scores of people flying between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has announced some of the most draconian public-sector cuts any developed country ’s government has ever attempted . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than science and engineering that are supposedly superior to business . indeed , his education minister recently declared a wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which demonized the national endowment for arts . ronald reagan has pioneered a wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which had been demonized by the populist nationalist endowment for arts . at the same time , the war against the us and the humanities is nothing new , though this is the first time that the fighting migrated
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given by saif al-islam , as well as security officials , surprised me . the head of internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in crimes that are currently committed against libyans , have refused to call a process of “ reconciliation . ” given recent waves of strife , it is more apparent than ever that any “ “ reform ” ” initiatives that have been undertaken in the arab world have been aimed only at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for criminal abuses of power . for it , this has been “ repentance from heresy . ” chief of internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled ’s khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes currently being committed against libyans , refused to call a process of “ reconciliation . ”
sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to an expanding volume of private-sector lending . if credit expands too quickly , the fed can raise the interest rate that it pays on deposits . that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how it would work in practice . so , how high would the fed – or the ecb – be able to raise interest rates on deposits in order to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ? that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how it would work in practice .
they have tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , was at risk of crises . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting the latest crisis than they are at stake in avoiding another one . the nature of financial risk persists in ways that are hard to anticipate the use of backward-looking indicators like those laid out by the g20 . policymakers at nanjing were promising to address this problem . they tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , was at risk of crises .
first , it does not dare to emerge as a “ soft on terror . ” moreover , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of pictures of sexual assault in us-run prisons , and has done nothing to roll back the patriot act . why , then , should obama , a constitutional scholar , be backtracking on this path ? second , perhaps he needs to attempt guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting , or even leave them out of trial forever : lawyers claim that torture , including sexual torture , has been so endemic in the cia and the us military that obama may hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are crime scenes . according to wells fargo , a lawyer at the center for constitutional rights , representing some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling torture practices crimes , so it calls them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in court .
but the current reality is that no megabank might go bankrupt without triggering yet another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the type of worldwide panic that resulted in the days following lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . specifically , experts like hoenig , who used to think of the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy emphasize that it simply would not work for the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , the bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters , and they impede asset grabbing . if the authorities – explicitly the us federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this is impossible , they have the legal strength to compel banks to change how they operate , including by cutting back on their size and scope . “ panic ” is a matter of panic , ” ” ” hoenig says , “ “ “ “ “ “ panic ” – ” “ “ “ “ panic ” is a matter of panic , ” ” hoenig says , and people , and nations , in general , to protect themselves and their fortunes ahead of others .
paris – the central paradox of french politics was confirmed again on march 27 . but le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine le pen . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its real representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( the so named conseiller général ) , the far-right national front won 11 % of the popular vote cast , while securing just 0.1 % of its seats . and , with that change now , france ’s fortunes may change as well .
the global fund brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia , a heroic achievement that is supposed to make donor countries ’ citizens proud . i am convinced that the global fund is one of the smartest investments that we can make – as many governments have come to understand since the beginning . australia , for example , has provided $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatments ; 80,000 people to receive tb treatment ; seven million to educate malaria ; and 14 million bed nets to families in need . the united states has been the global fund ’s ’s ’s ’s largest supporter , but many others have been doing their part . with technical support like these , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable , sustainable national health-care system that will be financed entirely by 2019 .
prior to his electoral victory , us president donald trump railed against “ dispatching ” foreign aid to countries that hate the us ” ” ” ” ” reflecting the widespread belief that aid needs to be slashed . the united states allocates less than 1 % of its federal aid budgets , but the average american believes that this figure should be thirty-one-times higher . the united states allocates less than 1 % of its federal aid budgets , but the average american believes that this figure should be thirty-one-times higher . and those lessons are especially pertinent at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should be focused solely on domestic issues , and let recipient countries cope with problems as best they can ( opposition to aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation newspaper recently launched a petition calling for the end of ring-fenced aid spending ( amounting to 0.7 % of national income ) .
second , iran ’s further isolation will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when the us is bowing to override its military disengagement and is trying to strike a deal with the taliban . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and it needs to rely on iran for access . but the former has fallen prey to a prolonged american occupation , with the second currently facing a us-led oil-export embargo designed to throttle it financially . as a result , america ’s effort to give the international effect to its new iran sanctions act represents a double whammy for india . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and has to rely on iran for access .
a key obstacle to such a proposal is congressional authorization to increase america ’s quota share . to secure us support , the fed ’s board of governors could commit not to contemplate any draft decision requiring 85 % backing without america ’s consent . that guarantee could be included in a resolution dividing the reform package . it would remain valid until the american people were placed to increase their quota and rebuild their voting share . this opens the possibility that america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s voting power could fall temporarily below the 15 % threshold required to veto decisions that demand backing 85 % of imf members ’ vote .
the case for openness , inclusion , and diversity in europe ’s societies has become much harder to make . the problem for italy ’s officials , as for other governments concerned by recent migrant flows , is putting pressure on right-wing populist parties that no longer have to be on a defensive basis . italian officials privately confirm the fact that current figures are not ungovernable . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . but , almost six months into north african upheavals , the number of arrivals on the southern island of lampedusa topped roughly 30,000 .
in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , according to the same oecd forecasts , to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , translates into precisely the same economic stimulus as in germany , 4.4 % of gdp . moreover , germany has far more inner stability than america ’s , owing to its failure to address the problem of heavily indebted households , which are now restricted in its borrowing binge . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state-owned budget will amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . the german state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , according to a recent oecd forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . while that surely impedes long-term economic growth and raises great structural problems , it also means that the state ’s reacts extremely counter-cyclically and stabilizing the economy to a large degree that benefits the rest of the world .
in the private sector , the bric index funds proliferated , even though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by putting in place a second term – the “ next 11 , ” ” ” or n-11 , to the discussion . that meeting produced the notable broadside against the united states , because each member declared its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . but catchy ideas die hard , and russia moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into an irreversible reality . a couple of months earlier , the four moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g20 summit in april noting their shared determination to amend the global economic system ’s rules-based order . the ossification of the brics into the de facto global institution is moving forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia obviously ) for the first “ bric ” summit .
reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his ability to dole out the cowboy cruelty with movie-star charm , albeit luck has also played a role . after all , the victory in the cold war was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose push to reform the soviet union hastened its collapse . with his well-rehearsed sunny disposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . his strategic defense initiative , aimed at ending the strategy of nuclear-deterrence known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was , in fact , nicknamed the “ star wars . ” advocating supply-side economics to the white working class , he convinced millions that the “ lesser government , ” ” ” ” ” meaning slashing federal programs , including education – would have brought “ morning place in america .
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang may have played a role in russia . experts would remind us that kazakhstan has never been a country , and that ukraine ’s claims to independence are historically questionable . as with china today , some feeble international condemnation would follow , with some speculation over the possible ties between kazakh militants and exile groups , or islamic fundamentalists . experts would remind us that kazakhstan has never been a country , and that ukraine claims to independence are historically dubious . compensating xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine .
the answer is obvious : china has mounted an all-or-nothing court press . and chinese policymakers have made it abundantly clear how unhappy they will be with negative decisions . in august , the currency ’s ’s ’s exchange-rate regime had been loosened slightly . renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans to establish new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . so , why has the imf been flip side ?
but foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not a cause for america ’s trade deficit . the real reason for this is that americans spend more than they produce . foreign governments ’ policies affect only how deficits divide one another among america ’s trading partners . the overall us trade deficit is the result of saving and investment decisions by american households and firms . the reason that americans ’ saving and investment decisions drive the overall us trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has an additional level of output to sell to the rest of the world .
yet , rather than recognizing the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that he created , modi has been discussing going even further , moving india towards a fully “ cashless ” society . judging from the blizzard of policy tweaks since his announcement , no impact studies seem obvious . many modi supporters argue that demonetization policy ’s problems are the product of inept implementation . but the truth is that his design has been fundamentally flawed . there has been no “ policy skeleton ” , no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence that alternative policy options are being contemplated .
washington , dc – terrorism on a scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . in kenya , the somali group of al-shabaab has carried out two major assaults , on nairobi ’s westgate shopping mall in 2013 and garissa university in 2015 , as well as numerous smaller incidents of terror . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the islamist extremist group boko haram has famous for its abduction of 276 school girls in 2014 , inflicted thousands of injured with suicide bombings and attacks on civilians . and in mali , just following the attacks in paris , the gunmen belonging to the al qaeda affiliate stormed a radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists – orchestrating attacks on a museum and a beach resort .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes whom they produce . royal perks comprise lifetime sinecures and civil-service domination , enabling princes to award contracts and get commissions to the top of their pay . so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are mounting . as the older generation dies , the new generation has come down to struggle before customers . indeed , with the ratio of royals to commoners now at about one thousand ( compared to one over five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing princely privileges , pay , and job demands have never been more intense .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to pay our debts ? ” like the worst drought in living memory devastated harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency food aid , health , and clean water provision . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia . over the past year , unprecedented humanitarian efforts have pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . that was in 1986 , before the public campaign and the initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burdens .
whether a correction in risky assets turns out to be temporary , or a beginning in the bear market will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will actually exit from qe as soon as it has signaled . there is a strong likelihood that weaker american growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal from liquidity support . brazil and other countries that complain about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars ” have now suddenly gotten exactly what they wished for : the likely premature end of the fed ’s qe easing . the consequences – sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . berkeley – since late 2014 – the us has been advocating a model of american governance , based on the tenth amendment to america ’s constitution , which states that “ “ “ powers ” not delegated to the united states to the us constitution , or prohibited by it to the states , are reserved to the states respectively , or to the people . ” increasingly , california has been exercising these constitutional rights , and has continued to do so . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
europe is slipping back into recession just when the recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction that has undermined the case for fiscal consolidation that is so heavily favored in europe . with the possible exception of the japanese participant , all endured firsthand the experience of the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . yet i took away a very different conclusion from davos , switzerland . europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction . with the exception of a japanese participant , all endured experience with the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s .
and the message is clear : large-scale exploitation of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other stresses that undermine food supplies and the quality of the planet ’s life . big scientific thinking has learned over the course of many decades to “ read ” the earth ’s history to understand how the climate system works . the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( for example , satellites reading detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding .
because europeans are militarily irrelevant , they argue , not surprisingly , that europeans emphasize diplomacy , rather than military might , to settle disputes . others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival center of power , however unrealistic this appears to be . on the contrary , no one should be surprised to see americans chafe at the constraints of their ability to exploit american military hegemony . some integration advocates view a united europe as a powerful partner . some commentators have started pointing to the differing views of america and europe concerning the role of international law , as opposed to the use of force , to adjudicate disputes .
moscow – the georgia crisis last august tested europe ’s security system , and the system has failed to fulfill its core task of securing common security for the continent as a whole . even before the georgian crisis , russia had already seen a need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and their functions . the european union believes that the russian initiative is well grounded and has shown interest in launching such a project . as a result , europe must revisit its current security arrangements , analyze what has happened , and take this analysis into consideration in reforming these arrangements . we have suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security guarantees to ensure equal security across europe .
that was the question posed by the tragic incidents in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a rally to protest a planned removal from the public park of a statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate military forces during a civil war . white supremacists held a rally to protest a planned removal from the public park of a statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during a civil war . princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists met with violence ? a counterprotest was organized , and the street struggle broke down .
chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a zeguo sample using keypad polling stations and handheld computers to decide how a city should spend an additional $ 6 million in public-works budgets . and wen has indicated that village elections could be extended to the next highest level of government – township administrations – over the coming years . these are taking the form of high-tech city hall meeting ( cbs ) . the zeguo exercise has been deemed tremendously successful , and has been replicated elsewhere in china . china ’s modest experiments with local elections have added exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ”
european regulators have already introduced sophisticated surveillance and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with track records of illicit fisheries , penalized european rogue operators , and helped encourage “ yellow or red carded ” countries to reform their fisheries laws . eliminating rogue fishing will help to replenish marine life and secure food and livelihoods for billions of people . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated technology for seafood traceability – the data and intelligence gathering that helps pinpoint exactly where seafood comes from the us and where it has been captured . such efforts , for example , the eu ’s electronic documentation scheme for the atlantic bluefin tuna catch , represent one of the most effective tools to eradicate illicit fishing . eliminating rogue fishing will help to replenish marine life and ensure food and livelihoods for billions of people .
a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help create a fragile environment that spawn civil disorder , resulting in death and injury . but a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market cities could improve and preserve urban health by capturing the intrinsic benefits of concentration , coordinate health policies and programs , embrace successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . they are also likely to be hardest hit by natural disasters , such as floods and mudslides that have devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . but the urban poor , faced with bad housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood diseases , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . indeed , many potential solutions stem from innovation opportunities created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity .
regrettably , the trial has lingered indefinitely , owing to the defendants ’ lawyers who have appealed the case . i have been harassed and campaigns to discredit me as part of an organized trial . this was followed by the june 2001 court of justice ’s decision to set a date for trial , making it possible at last to present the evidence against such individuals . courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first-ever effort to bring high military officials to justice . our myrna mack successes are notable , but achieving them has proven difficult : the police investigator was assassinated ; judges were put under threat ; and witnesses fled into exile .
the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 , reinforced the point last month with its united nations climate change report and the earth . some major economies , including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , – along with regions and towns – have now officially recognized the scale of the crisis . the question now is whether this will translate into a commitment to take the required action . the proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we face a climate emergency that demands radical and urgent action . that certainly did not happen at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland .
it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel ; but she no longer has the clout or energy to lead europe in her dealings with the outside world ; nor does she rally the europeans themselves . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is perfectly in tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s strength with its closest historical and cultural ties to russia , is on the receiving end of the political cycle . mediating between various systems and looking beyond other countries ’ current incarnation was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and italy , spain , and poland in no position to become principal actors , the conclusion is pretty straightforward : in part , by default , and partly owing to the sheer energy and imagination of its young president , this is france ’s moment .
john maynard keynes , writing the rules along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as a temporary expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s because of its inability or unwillingness , it is far from clear which – of leading governments to manage a rising tide of capital inflows – that led to a rising tide of capital inflows . a third path identified by the imf is to do away with national sovereignty altogether . thus , they contemplated only a “ trickle of globalization , ” with capital flows restricted mainly to long-term lending and borrowing . they understood that democratic countries would need the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies .
moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks and the growing importance of internet entanglement to their economic well-being , cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare may change . but if this makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to verify , then limits on certain types of civilian targets could still be established ( rather than arms ) , and negotiate rough rules of the road that minimize conflict . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to preserve . over time , better attribution of forensics can enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning can enhance the role of prevention and denial . because technological innovation has been faster than in the nuclear domain , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened reciprocal fear of surprises .
in georgia , on the other hand , russia has shifted from supporting the territorial integrity to the break-up of the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military power to do so . likewise , the us decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made it clear that it would veto an agreement proposed by un secretary general ’s special envoy , former finnish president martii ahtisaari . the georgian conflict followed a sharp drop in investor confidence . even then , the us agreed to yet another four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone was left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . russia now needs to ask itself about the relationship between short-term military victories and long-term economic prosperity .
finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too heavily on the us for its own security and prosperity . the democracies that have built that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . the democracies that have built that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened . the fracturing of the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes worldwide .
in the environment , new institutions emerge that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , most notably for use in programs that certify sustainable sourcing of resource use as in the case of forests and fisheries . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to use the expanded global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . a wide range of international negotiations on issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit from such alliances . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to use the expanded global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . indeed , modern international diplomacy involves more and more interdependent groups that make rules , set norms , and collect technical data .
to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) – has emerged . even germany has , to some extent , fallen victim to populist forces . but it has taken more than five months for parties to agree , with the largest opposition party now being the far-right alternative for germany . nor was a strong showing by populist parties in france earlier this month ’s elections in italy , where the anti-immigrant league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote . in a country that appeared to be vaccinated against populism by its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development .
most important , the government appears to be backtracking on a commitment to permit a binding referendum on opening up to the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly split on the issue , and nobody will be investing a percent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , because opposition claims will occur . likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers of politics and electoral reform . reelection is allowed only for the candidates , nominated by the same party , and enabled legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remain vague .
perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became obvious , had been relying on central banks relying not to pay sufficient attention to asset-price bubbles . but that leak clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( implying , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been too loose between 2003 and 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by a upsurge in inflation . that the boom-and-bust cycle might have emerged without inflation had to come as a surprise . central bankers were telling themselves that they were issuing asset markets all the attention that they deserve , by specifying that house prices and equity prices could reflect the extent to which they implied information on goods inflation . that the boom-and-bust cycle might have emerged without inflation had not come as a surprise .
that fine amounts to $ 2,000 per employee , far below the current average $ 16,000 premium for employer-provided family policies . but , even for full-time employees , firms may choose to pay a relatively small amount of fines , rather than providing insurance . rather than incur the cost of a premium on an approved policy , a smart employer may pay a fine for not providing insurance and raising employees ’ pay , so that they have more spendable cash after purchasing a subsidized insurance policy . employers can evade a mandate by cutting a worker ’s workweek to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) . that fine amounts to $ 2,000 per employee , far below the current $ 16,000 premium for employer-provided family policies .
the two cabinet ministers who had resigned over the affair , robin cook , and clare short , want their own revenge , and therefore continue their assault on blair for his `` lies '' lies . so far , blair has shown his resilience to such charges as these . indeed , he has gone on opposing attacks , most notably against the bbc , which did not exactly endorse the war with enthusiasm . but does the uncertainties now circling blair like the appetizingly beoul odor of the appetizingly lie ? or is this more the question of the premier minister loses confidence in his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ?
on the anti-torture protocol , the us has sought to derail the establishment of a universal system of detention visits under the optional protocol to the convention against torture . it has adamantly opposed several important and promising new human rights initiatives , most notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and the new anti-torture mechanism . yet , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed in late july by the un ’s economic and social council . here america has found itself allied with some odd bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . increasingly obsessing over the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america has over the last several years contributed to the widespread erosion of the un ’s human-rights monitoring system .
what needs to be said for this : britain is at its best when it views itself as a leader in europe . it must take leadership in mobilizing europe to compel the global economy to work for the people , to protect them from injustice and inequity . britain , which has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should be prepared once again to lead a progressive movement , spearheading action to combat climate change , resisting protectionism , and incentivizing sustainable growth . nor will it be sufficient to remember the historic benefits of engagement and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery in europe . just as britain once spearheaded europe in the struggle for fascism , promoting democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be inside europe front lines .
when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not only passive consumers , given the company ’s traffics in its data . a restaurant can not abdicate responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign saying , “ shoppers beware . ” the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing business , from airlines to food suppliers . a restaurant can not abdicate responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting , “ customers beware . ” when a company sells you a car , which , say , is not adequately tested , resulting in injury , the company pays a price .
so what is to be done ? the asylum system is totally unprepared to cope with a new generation of refugees who are ineligible under the current framework because they are fleeing not from the specifics of persecution , but from the disintegration of their national states . the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who comes and go ; in practice , the sizeable proportion of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay in their countries of destination , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who arrives and go ; in practice , the large proportion of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay in their own countries of destination , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . they can provide “ humanitarian protection ” or discretionary leave to remain ” for short periods ; but then they may be deported as illegal migrants .
princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography , which has opened the way for tremendous social change , is grossly underappreciated . as a result , few people have noticed how genuinely , powerfully shaping her agenda , how well she had thought her out and how audaciously she aspired to her efforts to manage it . in her brief lifetime , she has often been lauded for qualities ( her beauty and style ) that are secondary to her work and derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality and a disordered personal life ) that ran on an equal side by side . in other words , ms. obama manages to establish herself , unprecedentedly , as the “ first lady . ” she studied not only the jackie kennedy – a comparison evident from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and page-boy haircut – but also the triumphs and failure of that other glamorous but undervaluing stealth radical , princess diana .
meanwhile , some pro-growth policies are currently mooted might , if not well designed , increase the risk of disruptive financial instability and thus further complicating the task of central bankers . the eu , both are busy designing another round of stimulus , which will involve even more political and policy risks . other risks are already giving central bankers the headaches that follow . the protracted brexit process underpins the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-term impact on global growth in governments ’ weaponization of trade tariffs complicates the task of both the fed and the ecb . the notion of an exit from the people of qe – that is , a more direct channeling of central-bank financing to the population – is gaining greater traction from both sides on the political spectrum .
clearly , ak zhol has used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against ruling parties . he has resigned itself only after his victory in elections to the parliament , and he has since resigned in march . indeed , many opposition groups are engaged in the dirty tricks of the government . as a result , he has presided over many violations , a clear indication of the osce ’s back in 1999 . nonetheless , the elections have represented important progress .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been truly impressive .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and europe to china and russia . yet asean continues to face significant challenges . its combined gdp grew from $ 95 billion in 1970 to nearly $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . over the short term , it appears to be moving like a crab – two steps forward , one step back , and one step sideways . asean , for its part , continues to face significant challenges .
when samuelson took on the topic in his 1947 book , he did not look to brazil , but instead relied on “ revealed preference . ” as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis for it in brazil . much of modern economic and financial theory rests on the premise that people are rational , so that they systematically maximize their own kind of happiness , or , as economists call it , its “ utility ” . people ’s goals are discovered only by observing their field of economic activity . under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists based their research not on any physical construct underlying thinking and behavior , but merely on the premise of rationality .
central-bank balance sheets widened , with policy rates reaching their “ near zero ” lower bound . but policymakers have one more option : a shift to a “ purer ” fiscal policy , in which they direct monetary financing of government spending directly by printing money , – the so-called “ helicopter drop . ” the new money would bypass the financial and corporate sectors , going straight to the thirstiest horse : the middle – and lower-income consumers . there is plenty of low-cost water , it seems , but the horse refuses to drink . with no sign of low inflation and growth remaining tepid and fragile , many are anticipating chronic slow growth , with some even fearing yet another global recession .
it quickly became a “ rich versus the poor ” story , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . over the next several months , newspapers and tv networks have fled the narrative as it snowballed into a national obsession . the judge ’s ruling has spurred rumors that he has gone easy on the ground because her husband is concerned with high-ranking provincial officials . it has quickly become a narrative of “ rich versus the poor , ” widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . the case has gone to a local court , where a judge has ruled it through “ accidental traffic disturbances ” and has given the driver a two-year suspended verdict .
but these countries ’ rising middle class began to shift their political systems in another direction – a testament to the power that they now wield . with more than half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , political developments were able to move forward despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites . that power has risen for a few reasons , most of which are demographic . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with their median age at the mid – to the upper twenties . repeated military interventions in major muslim peoples – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – have undermined orderly political development .
the objective is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the ability of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . while latin america ’s economies are doing well now , owing to reform and high commodity prices , underlying problems are underlying . third , on the panel ’s list , increased investment in infrastructure construction and retention . the rules are needed to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt levels , and they require transparency in a way that the public knows what to do about it . when aligned with a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility , countries could enhance their economic growth substantially .
second , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success and avoiding the allure of recent shiny innovations . the report urges them to lay the foundations of “ digital building blocks ” – including fundamental infrastructure and skill sets – to harness positive disruptions to education and health services . this has resulted in a number of disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable impact at scale . too often , developing countries have captured on new technologies – distributing tablets to schoolchildren ! – without giving enough thought to be applied in specific national contexts .
but , overall , there is a hard time denying that the global economy lacks the momentum . this is partly because trees can not continue to grow forever : china ’s ’s ’s economy could not continue to grow at a 10 % larger rate each year . yet many countries remain impoverished enough to be endowed with strong growth potential ; and many others , however wealthy , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . and , partly because growth is not unconditional to it : citizens may be better off getting less out of it and more clean air . so there must be something else going back to holding back growth .
in april 2009 , and again in april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped out in bangkok to demand new elections , but had been dispersed by the army , with 91 fatalities . exploiting the weapons of an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the product of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , royalist-the-post conservative movements implicitly pointing to extra-constitutional solutions to thailand ’s political standoff . and , after more than two years , pad yellow shirts , too , have reverted to the streets to show their disillusion with abhisit . pad ringleaders now denounce all politicians as “ corrupt , ” and extol a virtue of the monarchy . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following bangkok ’s torching of central business districts , the red shirts have grown in number , demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s government .
gartner , a research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value added by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that ai could contribute as many as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . some estimates indicate that us companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in ai in the years and decades ahead . in any technological shift , those driving change can not lose sight of the human element ; there are some things that even the smartest machinery will never do . and corporate profits will go far beyond saving , as automation will spur innovation , upgrading operations , and leading to better customer service .
as is often the case , this is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . they should make a few things extremely well , and exchange them for other kinds of goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting gains from trade . and the idea that cities and countries really do specialize , and that is why , as a result , they should specialize , is one of those very wrong and dangerous ideas . but , while some ideas are both intuitive or obvious , they can also be both wrong and dangerous . as is often the case , this is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you .
europe would be infinitely better off if germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . italy is obviously merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until after her next election . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro . the trouble here is that germany has not been forced to make a choice . making matters worse , in the longer run it is bound to become unsustainable .
after five years of international sanctions , imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provides a seemingly welcome reprieve . both leaders gush out that their two countries are now on better terms than ever before . but , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet dissident song of the people ’s republic ; i will hug the chinese , a ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” which mocked ill-fated early attempts at a russo-chinese union . for russia , closer ties with china are unquestionably appealing . but the bilateral relationship has deepened considerably lately , exemplified last week at the forum ’s initiative , resulting in more than 25 deals ranging from agriculture to technology .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council comes to an end in march 30 november that is perfect timing for the polish opposition . following the parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , with opposition voters already viewing tusk as the only viable candidate . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
you do n’t particularly want to lend to them on a daily basis , but if somebody is prepared to pay , say , $ 200 to rent them to a dinner party , the trouble may be worth . and if you want it to pay , rezz.it will help you gather without feeling like cheapskate . or you may have a set of under-used dining room chairs . so you can set a high price to compensate for inconvenience and make money on your side . and you can post different prices for various times : $ 20,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 a year .
fifth , both sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in santiago as a last chance to sign an agreement . i am one of the few commentators who have argued every year that , notwithstanding the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests are making an agreement more likely than not . gaining the agreement done before thanksgiving will be critical to undergird america ’s business and consumer confidence for the christmas season . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump may throw a wrench in that process . fifth , both sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as a last chance to sign an agreement .
europe ’s institutions , like germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” whereas france favors the notion of european sovereignty . we understand strategic autonomy as an ability to set one ’s own set of priorities and make one ’s own decisions on foreign policy and security matters , combined with institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in collaboration with third parties , or on their own when needed . at the same time , we analyzed the likely barriers , difficulties , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to pursue this objective . at the same time , we analyzed the likely barriers , difficulties , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to pursue this objective . in trying to clarify matters , my colleagues and i recently suggested an operationalized definition of europe ’s strategic autonomy .
as a way to address this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run scientific pilot projects to research the opium licensing system for afghanistan that would be a cornerstone of the economic reconstruction process . in september , the united nations office on drugs crime reported that poppy cultivation soared by 60 % . so a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages the communities that suffer the most , in order to gain support from deeply impoverished rural populations . in fact , eradicating poppy crops not only damages the local community and undermines the international community ’s goals , but also fails : opium production last year was at an all-time high . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , for it destroys the single crop that grows in the south ’s harsh climate , serving as the main source of income to millions of people .
the concept of a preventive war is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations envisioned ten years ago , and which must be avoided . but the bush administration scares the us , the bush administration scares the rest of the world . the ninety-five percent of muslims , including the majority of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace , putting an end to islam ’s long-simmering humiliation that only the advent of democracy and evolution in the muslim world can make that possible . muslim beliefs counts one billion men and women worldwide among its adherents . five percent of them have proclaimed war over our civilization , and are prepared to engage in murder to put an end to western domination .
nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has been committing german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers with no assent to its parliaments , to a potential obligation to bail out greece , whom precisely ? likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s actions as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debts . indeed , it seems that typical northern european taxpayer supports a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european debtors . it would have to accepting in 2012 , what came to be known as “ redenomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . but blindly sticking to principle would have been a high-risk option for the ecb .
by equating the struggle against isis with the struggle against the soviet union , trump elevates a terrorist organization to great-power status . trump has also voiced his interest in working closely with russia to engage in isis , seemingly oblivious to his emphasis on russian involvement in syria . this contributes to the perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , once again , playing into the hands of isis recruiters . iran is now permitting russia ’s long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous effort to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin ’s regime . such partnerships could guide trump toward reaching an agreement with iran that is more than willing to engage with sunni radicals in iraq and syria .
in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact . as it stands , europe ’s economic output per capita remains well below its 2008 level . indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans aspiring to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( particularly health care and education ) , but also that they stand ready to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said they would favor a change to the status quo , even though it required some sacrifice . and the status quo is in urgent need of change .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for the progress it has made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , with education and health statistics impressive . all developing countries are facing myriad challenges , but this is especially the case for a country that has endured an intensive 30-year civil war . the government will need to set priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach . underlying wars , such as engagement with the tamil tigers , are typically social and economic grievances , such as real or perceived discrimination , and government failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately .
and condemning nazism might have been misconstrued as an assault not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle against stalin ’s ’s ’s ’s communist regime . western democracies , as the majority of historians now acknowledge , have played a comparatively minor role in the great military struggles of the united states . but any condemnation by pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as the support of hitler ’s war effort . very few people in the vatican – indeed , in europe at large – had any real appreciation in those periods of the vast industrial might of the united states . the pope believed that he could either condemn both totalitarian powers , or condemn any of them .
i am convinced that the economic and social impact of such data will rival each other , even surpass , the roles that petroleum and the internal combustion engine have played in the twentieth century . networked , its effects , and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even singapore ’s closed-off room room appears anywhere , the resulting losses extend to the entire grid . by its nature , the data traveling instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries . by its very nature , the data traveling instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries .
meanwhile , severe trade reform did not begin until 1991-93 . because both india and china did increase trade substantially , both are viewed as globalizers through the world bank ’s criterion . but , as their experiences reveal -- together with the experiences of many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization is hardly ever a factor in fostering higher growth and expanded trade early on . it is good at seeing the world bank catching on to this straightforward reality . governments in both countries focused on their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization .
i sensed that the request was a test – one that i was prepared to take , as i conducted maps with me in her forward air-control aircraft . he suggested that i produce a typed copy and gave me the office of the general who was away . i felt that the request was a test – one that i was prepared to take , as i carried out maps with me in her forward air-control aircraft . he seemed deeply involved , but made no comment , asking me only when i had anything in writing . he seemed deeply involved , but made no comment , asking me only when i had anything in writing .
at present , these kinds of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . in egypt , for example , sudan , sudan , and ethiopia , local extension services delivers real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . but that is slowly shifting , particularly as more people in emerging economies join mobile networks , with apps designed to collect and share agricultural information becoming increasingly accessible . in west africa , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and precision of sms weather alerts to distant african farmers . in egypt , for example , rural herders receive information on disease outbreaks to help them preserve their livestock health .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape yet another clarion call to reverse the retreat of globalization . to be sure , there have been efforts to grasp the current slowdown . but the premise is simplistic , at best . the problem lies in a lack of understanding of what drove trade growth in recent decades . faltering trade , it is believed , needs to be addressed .
in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for the world ’s major exporters , first america , then japan , and now europe . that is all the more important in a disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as a currency anchor may take on an even greater significance than it did in the late 1990s . if china joins this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate its actions and world financial markets , so far another source of severe instability . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency ’s war . that is all the more important in a disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as a currency anchor might take on even greater significance than it did in the late 1990s .
the us needs a well-focused approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . at the same time , policymakers and leading economists must become much more sensitive about how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , better protections for fragile segments of society should emerge and stronger automatic stabilizers . and even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would begin from a point of relative relatively high deficits and indebtedness . prolonging the current expansion will require big care , at least for now . policymakers , especially the us congress , need to avoid major mistakes and minimize market risks while doing more to foster growth .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as surveillance , ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults about each country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . this is one of the most notable reforms to the fund ’s work in the 30 years since the surveillance process was designed . these periodic checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and preserve economic stability . nonetheless , the globalized economy ’s increasingly complicated policy challenges demand fresh scrutiny . this is one of the most notable reforms to the fund ’s work in the 30 years since the surveillance process was designed .
second , eurozone members , whose path to regaining competitiveness through price and wage cuts , are too long and grueling , and whose societies take on a risk of rent-seeking asunder by the necessary imposition of austerity , are forced to exit a monetary union temporarily . the creditors relinquishing part of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now largely been replaced by private-sector lenders . four of the measures needed to achieve this outcome are urgently needed . first , a debt conference is urgently needed , with southern european governments ’ creditors and banks forging a portion of greece ’s sovereign debt . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial help , which would not have been necessary for long , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness .
finally , the eu should insist that ukrainian authorities halt all politically motivated criminal cases and relax those who are incarcerated for political crimes . these three steps would not resolve all the difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu . this matters , because ukraine has only partly fulfilled the imf agreements it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . the selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputation . steps in this direction would significantly improve ukraine ’s relations with the eu and america .
for many american security establishment members , putin ’s evident influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , such as that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and again in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions seem merely like more kowtowing to the us , elevating the hackles of other us leaders . putin has only reciprocated with an invitation to trump . arguing that his effort to improve relations with russia is in america ’s national interest , trump , soon after the summit invited putin to visit the white house in the near future .
washington , dc – earlier this month , european citizens will head to the polls to elect the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent 507 million . to be sure , europe ’s parliamentary election has brought smaller share of voters to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , participation rates over the past decade are comparable to the average turnout in america ’s congressional elections . given the perceived remoteness of europe ’s parliament and widespread frustration with europe ’s bureaucracy , the level of participation , and movements toward supranational politics is remarkable . how the electoral campaign unfolded marks a small but significant step in the making of europe ’s first transnational political space , world , history .
but it is simply this highly personalized form of politics embraced by saudi royals with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , that policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s ’s ’s ’s defeat in saudi arabia . but the bomb was not encased in metal , and terrorist groups were the only person killed . highly personalized politics form a part of what might be termed saudi arabia ’s ’s ’s theatre of a state , which maintains royals firmly in power . to the outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as if the fbi ’s chief personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at the garden party .
yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics . prime minister levi eshkol was reported to have said she had to talk seven languages , all of them in yiddish . together with golda meir and moshe dayan had to leave the government in 1974 in the yom kippur war . prime minister levi eshkol was reported to have said she had to talk seven languages , all of them in yiddish . perhaps eban was too “ urbane , ” too much of the scholar and gentlemen to make it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to the pinnacle of greasy .
but whether europe as a whole avoids lost decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance and rests on whether southern european governments can recover rapidly . as a consequence , southern europe has embraced the economic configuration in which its wages , price , and productivity levels have made sense only so much so long as it spent € 13 for every € 12 that it had earned , with northern european countries financing leaving europe lacking the euro . northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the south eager to spend ; and ample pre-2007 spending made employers there willing to raise wages fast . northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend to the extraordinarily easy terms of those in the south eager to spend ; and ample pre-2007 expenditure made employers there willing to raise wages fast . the process by which southern european countries became uncompetitive was fueled by market price signals – by disincentives that these signals had been created for entrepreneurs , and by how entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms .
though america maintains military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan american support for a more confrontational approach . of course , while trump does not spawn his allies , his primary goal remains china . a worldwide economic downturn is just the latest thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risk , including potentially no-deal brexit and the populist gain in europe ’s parliament election in may . after all , competition between the us and china extends far beyond trade . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression .
recent high-level deals for foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin and new york respectively , have blown up . a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies , such as regionally focused employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the heavily contingent nature of success . competitions among states and localities to attract major employers with tax burdens and other subsidies work especially badly . they can be responded , and periodically revised , only through the iterative process of strategic interactions between public agencies and private firms . few policies operate off the shelf and reliably through multitudinous settings .
shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing after a decade of spectacular expansions . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely to be if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them . if china does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely to be if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward .
london – as governments across western europe have begun bailing out their banks and their depositors , eastern europeans have been watching nervously , uncertain about what the global financial storm will mean for them . now that the storms have hit , europe ’s fragile bonds of european solidarity are being put to a test . if the situation persists until the end of the year that can not be ruled out , many more countries could experience severe banking crises . two countries , hungary and ukraine , have already called for major imf support packages . several more could do so over the next month , unless frozen credit markets thaw .
some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods – notably , sugar – are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . but the big issue for health professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . the processed food industry says , “ you need sugar to live . ” that differentiates the importance of differentiation , because quantity is determined by users , whereas quality is determined by industry . sugar-based sugar , for example , is consistently an ingredient with the highest score on yale food addiction scale that measures people ’s food cravings .
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative delivered nearly two billion doses of polio vaccines to 575 million children in 94 countries worldwide . in each country , partner institutions including health ministries , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations collectively to explore every immunization campaign . a closely coordinated effort amongst private-sector and public-sector partners to deliver an oral polio vaccine to each child under five has been the key to success . each detail , from the number of bicycles and boats needed to deliver vaccines to otherwise inaccessible areas , to refrigerators and cold box boxes , needed to keep vaccines potent , even the batteries needed to power them . globally , international donors and un agencies worked closely with national governments , tallying with the precise needs of massive polio immunization campaigns that target hundreds of millions of children .
still , one wonders whether the eu is equipped to present itself as a united front . this has long been the strategy of russia , and it is now accepted by china and the us as well . in an increasingly deal-making world , a new g6 might offer a defender of the rules-based system . in 2016 , for example , southern and eastern eu member states relying on chinese investment have managed to water down a joint eu declaration regarding china ’s territorial encroachments on the south china sea . with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it is becoming easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy .
indeed , it is a key issue in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s high-minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems , especially in africa . but the headwinds of globalization were intended to blow back cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . evict the state from foreign direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and improve both economic efficiency and governance . the harvard political scientist dani rodrik suggests why this is not happening .
but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and the european union ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . florence – europeans who are keen to revitalize the continent ’s unification process recently turned their attention to the founding of the united states . in fact , the formation of an american constitution and the birth of an american people offers grounds for hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe may one day be resolved . many , however , dismiss the precedent of america ’s founding years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . others who accept that federalist principles may well suit europe ’s problems , the despair that europe ’s “ people ” who might bring about this new political architecture miss .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . moscow ’s protests , the largest in many years , must continue to keep putin on night or would not be dispersed with such unabated brutality . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has been showing himself to be in control , even preening his photos in august outfit his favorite motorcycle outfits with his favorite motorgang .
madrid – the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to the border province of khorasan and the arab spring began , with persians taking arab names and translating into islam . by 651 , almost all of the major urban centers in persia were under arab control , adding momentum to the process . at various times in its history , the caliphates had extended to asia , africa , and parts of europe . the struggle by various forces seeking to wield control or re-establishing the caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history . mass conversion to islam among persians was the first step toward establishing the first caliphate , a political-religious state that had been comprising all muslim lands .
in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : as oil prices plunged to $ 40 per barrel , they recovered and were ousted by $ 70-80 / barrel , russia would revert to economic stagnation in the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . sure enough , gdp growth between 2010 and 2012 , although averaging a respectable 4 % , turned out to be spurred by a post-crisis recovery and a further rise in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-term factors have been exhausted , and the brezhnev-like periods of economic stagnation have started . russia ’s political elite understands that the us economy has been able to 5-6 % annual growth . the russian government ’s unwillingness to fight corruption and reinvigorate the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – yet stable – political equilibrium .
left-wing proponents of so-called modern monetary theory argue that larger permanent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , owing to the lack of risk of runaway inflation . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have proposed a “ forward emergency fiscal facility ” : direct-monetary transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . despite terminology differences , all of these proposals are variants of the same idea : big fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand in the event of another slump . following this logic , in the uk , the labour party has proposed a “ people ’s ’s ’s ’s qe , ” ” ” whereby the central bank would print money to fund direct fiscal transfers to households rather than to bankers and investors . despite terminology differences , all of these proposals are variants of the same idea : big fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand in the event of another slump .
when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often very difficult , because so many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decision-making or action become involved . so , let ’s assume that a toll on the road project is approved , a concession contract is poised and companies are offering a bid to do so . there are plenty of uncertainties in both phases , but particularly during epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on a project . most developing countries , i know , spend too little money devising good projects . the bidders need to plan for two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) ; and a longer phase in traffic when toll revenues are collected to recover costs and expected returns .
besides , there is a clear business rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and ratings agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” such as oil and gas projects that will become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction pledges , one might think that global efforts to address climate change are losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change ; nor can we ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have failed to do so . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction pledges , one might think that global efforts to address climate change are losing steam . nonetheless , to get and keep all governments on board , a low-carbon transition must be inclusive .
in practice , this movement is also motivated by little more than a fear of change . a less agressive anti-europeanism stems from a tendency that struggles over old values like honor and virtue . but here the people who were active in the former “ solidarity ” movement – for it movements of the commonwealth rather than of individuals , movements for public rather than private freedom – form a new “ euro-antagonists bloc . ” more recently , a group of members of parliament ( quite a large one – 30 deputies ` ) has abandoned the majority post-solidarity party , creating a new “ polish family ” with the slogan that the ruling coalition is in “ serving in brussels . ” defend “ family values , ” whatever this means .
an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit the facts recently emerged from the paul woolley center for a study of dysfunctionality in capital markets , at the london school of economics . managers may be seeking a higher and higher rate of return in a upturn . that may be part of the story , but competition for talent and shoppers appears to be intense among investment banks and others , yet they have collectively been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of those customers . researchers there argue that in fragile speculative industries ( and finance has certainly been in that category in recent years ) it is hard for investors to monitor those managing their money . they may see short-term returns , but they fail to understand very well how those returns are generated .
to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability are severe enough to precipitate a comprehensive breakdown in the rule of law and order . but , according to the world peace index , it ranked 88th out of 153 countries worldwide . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , respectively , fifth , and sixth on the innovation index , respectively , but only 28th and 29th on the peace index . conversely , bhutan ranks among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not make it onto innovation indices . the united states is consistently ranked among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , including insead ’s global innovation index .
germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger . but merkel continues to defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe margrethe vestager – who is not from the epp , but who is in a sense – liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , who is from the epp but not the spitzenkandidat . finally , the elections provide a check on german hegemony more broadly . germany ’s ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger .
with recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence , there is a window of opportunity to turn the world ’s attention to the most critical challenges facing our planet . with recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention to the most critical challenges facing our planet . annan has inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world , drawing attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and critical longer-term issues like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water . recent efforts to leverage developments in these countries through threats and sanctions , and sometimes war , have failed . on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general following kofi annan ’s ten-year tenure .
the gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 with china as the most common goal . that is why a catastrophic free-for-all in us trade policy during the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression . many complain that something similar , if less grand in scope , takes place today . an outfit called global trade alert ( gta ) has been at the forefront , raising alarm bells about what it calls a protectionist juggernaut . many complain that something similar , if less grand in scope , takes place today .
such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give british grounds to rethink their exit decisions with their heads held high . given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the costs of social welfare benefits for migrants ? host countries could conceivably assume responsibility for administering benefits like unemployment insurance , sick pay , and pensions . and countries of origin could continue to offer benefits that do not correlate with jobs , such as allowances for child staying at home and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrive . given this , why not have a system in which both host countries and countries share the cost of migrants ’ welfare benefits ?
it became commonplace knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and this kind of solidarity-based solution to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not afford to save . what needs to be done has long been obvious . the pricing of the monetary union ’s ’s survival and hence that of the european project is more community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . no alternative – and certainly not a status-quo – will work . those who oppose it because they fear common accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and a loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s re-nationalization , thus its exit from the world stage .
more bugs will have to be put in place , including new bugs found in fixes . so the result of months of debate might well be better characterized as “ emu ’s 1.7.3 ” than of emu 2.0 . but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has been exceptionally fast . the eu is not bereft of instruments – so-called “ structural funds ” – that finance investment in poorer regions – but has no strategy for using them . for investors , the reform process may seem impossibly long and hesitant .
its schools are funded by local communities , and work within the framework of the national curriculum designed by the parliament and government . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as a homogeneous mass , where all students can be educated on the basis of the same pedagogical approach . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as a homogeneous mass , where all students can be educated on the basis of the same pedagogical approach . other eu countries might find sweden ’s ’s ’s system worth of study . but schools need to fulfill individual children ’s needs and capabilities in ways that produce learning with stimulating adventures .
to break the cycle of poverty , a country needs investment in its children ’s future instead of incarcerating 2.3 million people per year , many for nonviolent crimes that are signs of poverty . from this perspective , they are in and out of a jail system , with little prospect of ever gaining legal employment that enables them to escape poverty . children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; too often , they end up in jail or suffer violence or premature deaths . what is mad about this is that the us has missed its manifest value – and has missed it for 40 years . the children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; they , too , frequently end up in jail or suffer violence or premature deaths .
the non-residential construction boom that created helped to absorb not only the labor force left rural areas , but also brought about a remarkable decrease in inequality . and , if not , they may still bask in the international accolades that they receive from foreign entities . in this respect , the comparison between the two approaches is clear . colombia ’s policymakers were hoping that if it were adopted by best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody would arrive . in this respect , skill shortages did not become a major problem , owing to a fairly open immigration policy that enabled the country to exploit the talents that colombia has been unable to maintain .
but over-saving countries – brazil , china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries . moreover , there is now massive public-sector leveraging in advanced economies , with massive budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , counter-cyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the enormous cost of socializing the financial system ’s ’s ’s ’s losses . thus , a recovery in global aggregate demand will be weak , pushing global growth to a much lower level . at the global level , countries that have spent too little on their own – the united states , the united kingdom , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend , consuming less . at the global level , those countries that have spent too much – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend less , consuming less .
the international community is now charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risks of a similar disaster in the future . earlier demands for tougher regulation came under nothing , owing to the financial sector ’s opposition . so far , a key part of the problem has been countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate . the current crisis , wall street ’s fall , is to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism . the global dimension of this crisis , too , has a positive side to play .
it is because of the infinite importance of this great debate that the state should strive to be neutral . in advocating a disestablishment of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the importance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . after all , if the state ’s ostentatiously take sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrated the ultimate convictions against its dissenting citizens . after all , if the state ’s ostentatiously take sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrated the ultimate convictions against its dissenting citizens . in contrast to the militant liberalism of the french tradition , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in an ongoing culture war from weaponizing the state ’s coercive power of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the implosion of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . while international cooperation on regulatory reform makes it difficult to achieve on a piecemeal basis , it could be attainable in a grand bargain that re-arranges the entire financial order . a new multilateral system , based on sounder principles , must be devised . a former , represented by the united states , has broken down and the latter , represented by china , is on the rise . following the path of least resistance , the international financial system ’s gradual disintegration .
today , however , the benefits derived from its achievements are at risk , owing to a spate of stunning courtroom defeats . with the case of competition against the software giant microsoft seemingly at the offing , european commissioner monti will need to rediscover his footing fast . over the years , he has won important victories constraining state aid to entrepreneurship , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is often in the spotlight , typically to popular acclaim . within a time of just a couple of weeks , the european court of justice ( to whom private parties can appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions .
droughts and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and ample resources , can be turned away . but time and time again , humanitarian relief in africa came short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980 ’s . then , as now , food insecurity was predictable long before the first famine pangs had been felt . so many proud and dignified people were stripped of their livelihoods , forcing them to rely on one minuscule food daily or nothing at all . making matters worse , these tragedies were avoidable ; we knew that these crises came to pass .
the bottom chessboard comprises transnational relationships that cross borders outside of governments ’ control of governments – everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this board , power is distributed chaotically among non-state actors . on this board , power is distributed chaotically among non-state actors . no single government can control outcomes without the cooperation of others . on this board , power is distributed chaotically among non-state actors .
translation : a orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than they otherwise would have been the case . making matters worse , both have the motive and the opportunity to grow even bigger . this form of government support amounts to a large-scale implicit subsidy to the big banks . as long as the us allows cross-border banks at or near their current scale , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate their failures .
the dutch group urgenda , and almost 900 co-prosecutors have successfully sued the dutch government , thus forcing it to adopt tighter climate policies . and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil fuels , they would contribute to the eventual phase-out of a climate-secure sector . meanwhile , fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressures . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a complaint to the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s human-rights commission , calling for an inquiry into big fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility for causing climate change . fortunately , the world will not need to wait for moral suasion to pursue this day .
* telecom liberalization , including entry by new private service providers , is critical to lowering costs and spreading benefits . a few years ago , for example , chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system that connects its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its customer network . it chose to out-source that operations to federal express , which uses a sophisticated on-line system to govern global deliveries and sales . as a result , national semiconductor saw its delivery cycle to customers cut off from four weeks to just one week , and distribution costs cut from 2.9 % of retail sales to 1.2 % of retail sales . several steps are urgently needed to support a massive increase in internet use in these other locations :
if governments run larger fiscal deficits and financing this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money – nominal demand will undoubtedly rise , producing some of the mix of higher inflation and higher real output . as a result , the option of so-called “ helicopter money ” ( qe ) is increasingly being discussed . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes by the same people ) that monetary financing will not stimulate demand , because people will fear a future “ inflationary tax . ” but the discussion surrounding it is riddled with confusions . it is argued that monetary financing would commit central banks to keeping interest rates low permanently low , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation .
geneva – when lehman brothers famously proclaimed bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became clear who owed what to whom to whom to whom they could not pay down debts and who would go down next . in hindsight , complacency in the run-up to the crisis was unambiguously unconscionable . with policymakers struggling to react to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s turned to yet another great depression . the result was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicked , and firms went under , not only in the united states but around the world . and yet little has changed in their aftermath .
should the spd vote on a coalition agreement in early december to block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but not entirely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit . aside from a few minor particulars , the consensus has prevails . for some , this is the cause of ambivalence . coalition partners disagree about how urgent it is to sort out this question . should the spd vote on a coalition agreement in early december to block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely developing but not entirely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense matters were not the culprit .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . indeed , every new gm crop variety has to satisfy rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . much of the problem lies with the small group of anti-gm activists that object to technology on “ moral ” grounds . the world health organization has also confirmed that the “ no effect on human health ” was revealed to be on the rise in consumption of such foods . badly needed biosafety legislation in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already been delayed .
unless coverage is completed , one can expect the regulated to complain that they have placed them at a competitive disadvantage . that solution will be incomplete , though , because not all derivatives merchants are regulated financial institutions , and because many creditors would find ways to circumvent the treaty and the requirement . regulators ’ call to an isda for voluntary action will not amount to much if it is merely a request to the derivatives industry to treat its own financial interests . perhaps regulators will find that they must require that those regulated possess the desired contract provisions be enforced . regulators may well have to turn to bankruptcy laws to fix the problem .
but even that was insufficient for britain ’s leaders , who tightened the rule of law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition law in england . the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who has employed “ words , signs , or visible representation ” … to excite disaffection against government ” can be accused of sedition and potentially condemned to life imprisonment . in other words , there is no free speech to indians . the british have concluded , in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ the sedition law favorable to the people ruled by a government of its own nationality and beliefs can be deficient , or , in some respects , unsuited , for a country under foreign rule . ” sedition has thus been explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi ’s party has been among its prominent victims , albeit far from its latest .
beijing – last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed the memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) . after decades of actively participating in international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has started to resemble a revisionist power aspiring to establish a new global order . now , it is using its rising clout to reshape global economic governance . last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank ( iadb ) . now , they are using their rising clout to reshape global economic governance .
new free-trade agreements give european economies access to major markets worldwide . and eu progress on the single market has helped spur greater competitiveness . these are , by all reasonable standards , remarkable uk-based achievements . achieving a global climate agreement promises not only to preserve the environment , but also to cement europe ’s ’s ’s role as a leader in sustainability . and eu enlargement has boosted europe ’s security substantially .
a special report on semiconductors – essential to american national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s obama ’s council of science and technology ( pcast ) offer some answers . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits as a result of china ’s behavior . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits as a result of china ’s behavior . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , as well as some have already tightened security in response to inflows of us semiconductor companies to china and acquisitions of us semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles to play in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security in favor of us semiconductor ip flows to china and to strengthen export controls and inward investment restrictions .
our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage to our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . four decades ago , countries not only endured the immediate economic impact of opec ’s embargoes ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation . swift and resolute action to compel buildings to become more energy-efficient , design automobiles that require little or no fossil fuels , and an increase in the share of renewables in electric power generation could ensure that the substantially hotter and less agreeable world of 2050 that the ipcc warns against does n’t materialize . business-led innovation and market-based solutions may drive a decisive global shift away from crippling fossil-fuel dependence toward more efficient renewable-energy systems . a rocky mountain institute of fire analysis reveals that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies to powering america ’s economy , which is 158 % larger in 2050 , without reliance on oil , coal , or nuclear energy .
luckily , two missed the target , and israel has managed to intercept the third . but the episode has represented a serious escalation of hostilities , and has served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in warsaw . on the same day , hamas has launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza in israel ’s dimona reactor . its captured uranium has not been weapons-grade ; international inspectors have been stripped of all sensitive materials from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( which is why it was absent when the united states invaded nato in 2003 ) . but what an international response , if anything , would have been initiated if the cache had been highly enriched ?
moreover , the 9/11 surge in oil prices , which raised fears of yet another negative growth shock , has since recede . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most major economies . though dollar appreciation took some pressure on non-us economies , which depend on exports or foreign capital , this has heightened the risks of an open-ended currency war . america ’s economy reflects this dichotomy . at the same time , not all indicators are grim .
in the personal-computing business of moving from apple bulky ii to a sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) , steve jobs were the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . ( others have become “ business ” leaders , but simply steve became someone well-known and admired millions , including the romanian waiter at the british airways in which i sat now . ) for some reason , it was held at the playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) . i first met steve jobs in 1979 or 1980 , at ben rosen ’s personal computer forum . he has inspired wide public enthusiasm for the quality of his goods and his personal charisma .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , owing to its 3 % average growth rate in 2018 ( as measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . from the end of the great recession of 2011 to 2017 , america ’s economy has grown at an average annual rate of just 2.1 % , on average . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . what accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the impact would be greatest ( resulting in some 20 % jump on the percentage of women ’s elected ) in systems that currently lack effective quota laws . in closed-list systems , the candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , female ( or vice versa ) . but if these countries substitute their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of female candidates elected should all remaining equal , up by about 10 % . in closed-list systems , the candidate lists ought to be zippered : male , female , female , female ( or vice versa ) . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in roughly 20 % on the percentage of women elected ) in systems that currently lack effective quota laws .
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s ’s report , trump attempted to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s ’s ’s dealings with russia . likewise , he flouted a constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments – money , or personal advantages for foreign governments that do business , sometimes of extravagant chunks , at his various hotels and golf clubs , and has found other ways to monetize the presidency . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has attempted to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . for example , frustrated that the us congress had denied him all of the funding that he wanted for his phantasmagorical wall along its border with mexico , he simply plucked the funds from the us department of defense .
when debt becomes unsustainable , there are several potential bargaining results . sometimes , debt-service payments are rescheduled , and perhaps stretched out over a longer period , giving the debtor country time to regain its repayment ability . argentina defaulted on its public debt in 2001 . argentina defaulted on its public debt in 2001 . few governments refuse to pay at all in any form .
though ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in parts of the world where flu pandemics begin , the probability of success approaches zero . but a strategy can be “ cost-effective ” only if it is feasible . responses in turkey – where as many as 50 potential cases have emerged in eastern ukraine – are instructive . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china , where a pandemic strain will likely originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is highly cost-effective .
that has made china a key trade partner for the united states , most of europe , and a number of other economies besides marketing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . deng xiaoping ’s ’s ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvements in human history , and with it the emergence of a large and growing middle class . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves – much of it in us dollars , but also in other major currencies – owing to its large trade surplus with the us in recent decades . it is helping to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its beneficiaries have large budget deficits that fall short of national saving ) . it remains the vital assembly center of the global supply chains for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , that enable lower world consumer prices .
in the case of the balkans , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plant in a threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists have appealed to attacks to release from radioactive contents . for ukraine ’s government , angst is real . history offers little guidance as to whether the warring countries would avoid damaging their nuclear sites . with the exception of the 1990 ’s balkan conflict , wars were neither fought nor within countries with nuclear reactors . even ukrainians born after 1986 understand what the us-led chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by combat might look like .
over the past two years , or so , saudi arabia has made starkly apparent that it would not easily relinquish its market share – to anyone . it has pursued a campaign to recover its former positions not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids ( oil ) , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , backed by a surge in production , aimed at pressuring its weaker competitors . as soon as the door to asia became open , however , russia ’s companies seized the opportunity to enter india ’s downstream markets and indonesia – two countries that are critical to the saudis ’ own strategies . china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom tariffs on russia ’s energy resources .
indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . this is the kind of economics that i hope that china will develop . participants in such a good economy would range from grassroots grassroots movements to the most advantaged . history suggests that it would be one of a entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities and exercising an initiative to try new things ) and innovative people ( imagining new things , developing new concepts into commercial products and methods , and commercializing them to potential ones ) . what kind of economics would offer this good life ?
as a recent article in the financial times highlights , in two areas notoriously immune to increases in productivity , education , and health care , technology already reduces demand for its skilled labor force . a wide range of jobs that the us is now thinking about as unskilled , secure , and irreducibly human may be the additional casualties of technological change . ( though perhaps this is not automation proper – the supermarket has just shifted some customer work . ) but technological advances now feed back to better jobs , too . for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for better jobs .
in april , the roma killers gunned down a roma factory worker , maria balogh , shot her to death , and injured her 13-year-old daughter . in february , the roma father and his five-year-old son were killed outside their home near budapest . last november , a roma couple killed in northeastern hungary . in february , the roma killers gunned for a roma factory worker , maria balogh , shot her to death , and injured her 13-year-old daughter . the house was burned down to the ground .
the information revolution has transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse it . with american workers already competing against robots at home and against lower-wage workers abroad , disruptions to imports will simply create more jobs for robots . a more rational approach would embrace twenty-first-century realities . the processes of twenty-first-century globalization are all too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrolled to rely on static actions like tariffs . trump should be protecting individual workers , rather than individual jobs .
iran ’s recent municipal elections have been humiliating for ahmadinejad and his kremlin supporters . but hitler ’s ’s power over germany has been far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s ’s ’s ’s power over iran . he very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is he some kind of latter-day hitler , and is today iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany . hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran very well might .
this ensures that both local and regional preferences are deemed alongside those of eurozone-wide harmonization and scale economies . but this requires a richer reservoir of ideas , not a unified approach . the final principle is subsidiarity , whereby decision-makers are accountable to the outcomes of their decisions . the final principle is subsidiarity , whereby decision-makers are accountable to the outcomes of their decisions . this means that as long as europe ’s electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared responsibility will be a pipe dream .
the super-rich had one over-riding objective in joining the bush coalition : tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the richest households . george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on a extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected a political coalition of the two major powers : the super-rich and evangelical christians . bush ’s team believed that they would end up balancing tax cuts for the rich with cuts in government spending , but never again explained this to the public . as those policies falter , global financial markets respond negatively , adding uncertainties to the global economy , and there is little relief in sight , as america enters an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . evangelicals were brought on by so-called family values , ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups for social services that it provides locally and internationally .
to bolster purchasing power and stimulate consumption , low tax cuts – and middle-income households – are essential . japan in the early 1990 ’s waited too long to act and missed a proper opportunity to enact countermeasures , whereby japan has yet to recover fully from its long stagnation . some large eu countries are on the brink of recession , and are on the brink of recession . to be sure , the eu ’s member states should determine a concrete form that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves . public investment in infrastructure ( for example , the massive expansion of europe ’s railroad network ) , together with climate protection and environmental technologies , will be necessary .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to at least $ 150 billion annually over the coming decades . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well-positioned to play a key global role in renewable energy . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . household and business spending , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting a 3.5 % annual growth rate . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well positioned to play a pivotal role in renewable energy .
an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov passed over , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” ” ” ” overseeing environmental and transport . despite his years in office , medvedev still knows much more than his fancy ties and costly watches than his executive actions . a far more competent placeholder would be sergei ivanov , a former kgb secretary-general . earlier this month , putin was re-inaugurated – or , rather , crowned – in spectacular fashions , with medvedev again signaling his role as prime minister . but ivanov is far taller than putin , who , at any rate , has achieved only the rank of the colonel .
cambridge – the government ’s programs to support pensioners are in trouble in every country , owing to rising life expectancy and the rising ratio of pensioners to taxpayers . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” social-security system will generate a crisis when the fund is exhausted . here is how the american system works : through legislation , a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to funding retiree benefits . though the options at which time will diverge from those of other governments , the policies to avoid america ’s crisis are relevant to other populist aging countries . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , for america ’s “ trust fund ” system to generate crises when the fund is exhausted .
newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in reporting scandals , helped to prove to brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system has been sufficiently stable to withstand open criticism . indeed , while scandals have rocked the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market . more recently , he has criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets for his failures in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the common sense needed from someone who governs . ” one reason for this is that corruption scandals have provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in reporting on scandals , helped to prove to brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is sufficiently stable to withstand open criticism .
the two organization of american states ’ electoral observation missions that he himself had invited , and whose terms he had accepted , then refused to certify the outcome . the constitutional court that allowed morales to run deemed a presidential succession legal ; timely elections were promised ; and the military did not take power . but the current constitutional provisions were subsequently followed by the us government . true , morales resigned when the military told him to , and after he acquiesced to the protesters ’ demands for a new vote . the bolivian military was arrested by no means at all .
this is the type of liberal democratic spirit that operates outside of the convention that elections make decisions by governments . it is not always consistent or rational , and it is not always a matter of social media . and it is motion a very fast process in precipitating crises . it is fueled by a remarkable degree of social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it is set to occur very quickly in precipitating crises .
when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism with little safety valves , it gave rise to an explosive mix . the current crisis demonstrates how far we have come from this model . countries were obliged to commit to only limited trade liberalization , with ample exceptions for socially sensitive industries ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . this left them free to construct their own versions of national capitalism as long as they adhered to a few simple international rules . financial globalization , in particular , played havoc along the old rules .
you and i may depend on one another , but if i depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power has increased . power arises from an asymmetries of interdependencies . for decades , america and saudi arabia had a rebalancing of asymmetry in which the us depended on them as the swing oil producer ; they depended on the us for ultimate military security . so , although america did not have other interests in the middle east , such as israel and nuclear non-proliferation , the balance of energy imports and exports would probably not have been able to keep america out of military expenditures , which some experts predict run to $ 50 billion a year , to guard against oil routes in the region . at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened .
european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , has openly frets over deep divisions among eu member states over brexit and questions whether “ hungarians and poles ” want exactly the same thing that germany and spain do . in each case , voters have said , “ no one ” – outcomes that are likely to be blamed , particularly in the uk , on national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for domestic problems . indeed , europe ’s leaders ’ parochialism is a major reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . a lack of historical vision among the current generation of political leadership is undermining the shared sense of purpose needed to compel eu citizens to feel as part of the same community , regardless of their different domestic identity . at the national level , the lack of political will has come from the craven application of referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty established by the european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ vote for an eu-ukraine association agreement last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy had collapsed . today , the equivalent of a breakdown has been of “ regulation-lite ” regimes , in which a party that styled itself as “ new labour ” has embraced a powerful role to play in markets , particularly for mostly deregulated financial markets . that model has been built politically toward creating consensus , as well as keynesian management economically . in the 1960 ’s , keynesian policies delivered an illusion that everyone benefits , with high levels of employment and pronounced wage growth .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . palestine ’s religious landmarks are attracting rising numbers of religious tourists from around the world every year .
embassies have issued alerts to tourists and their citizens living in france ; tv news programs have shown hours of burning car footage . they know that their cities are also vulnerable to urban violence , to a large extent , in ways that share pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people . still , mayors throughout europe have reacted more moderately , feel-good , and show solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . other countries ’ governments appear to have been attempting to distance themselves from the problem , fearing contagion that they know are likely to spread . as french cities have been torched , other countries have been extremely severe in judging france .
as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a higher rate than the global supply side , prices will continue to rise . to be sure , intensity of use has plummeted for some commodities , like gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , such as aluminum and coal , it rose since 2000 , or , most recently , as was the case for coptic copper and oil declines . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s ’s ’s leaders must sustain to lift enormous numbers of people out of poverty – thereby hindering the crisis of legitimacy – places a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities forecasts no more than 2 % annual growth in real terms . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity is defined as the amount of commodity that it consumes in order to generate unit output , fall dramatically , its demand for commodities will be larger this year than it was last year .
payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a substantial shortage of staple goods . in the automobile sector , a default exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transport services due to shortages of spare parts . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the rest of the economy . in the automobile sector , a default exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transportation service , owing to shortages of spare parts . cancer was diagnosed earlier this year , and forced to launch a social-media campaign to locate the drugs that it demanded .
of course , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . likewise , while egypt is in the middle of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also intends to regain a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and across the region as a whole . after all , turkey is already a functioning democracy ; it is a political power for itself . the “ middle empire ” of the middle east will no longer remain a single sleeping giant . to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it .
if “ constitutionalized ” , they are simply implant the idea that the constitution is an aspiration , rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . such state-sponsored advantages have little to do with the justice of their socialist promoters supposedly demanded by their socialist promoters , but everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption . state-owned health insurance companies , the state has guaranteed retirement benefits , etc. are not only insecure and inefficient ; they are also at odds with the vision of political reform . but in a situation in which many fields of social life – such as education , health , and social services – need quick and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its job offer the only plausible avenue for change . the desire to limit or preserve some form of free-market human activity may be understandable , especially in countries like poland , where the free market remains an unknown animal .
indian arts , classical music , and dance all have the same effect . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as the large part of then-president hafez al-assad ’s bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan . a senegalese friend said to me of his illiterate mother taking a bus to dakar every month to patrol a bollywood film – hardly understanding hindi ’s dialogue and can not read the french subtitles , yet they may still catch the spirit of movies and understand the story , and people like her look at india with stars in their sights . so , too , does the job of indian fashion designers , now striding across the world ’s runways . indian arts , classical music , and dance have the same effect .
new delhi – barack obama , the sixth american president to visit india since achieving independence , is arriving at a time when both the united states and india . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned themselves , opening an awkward gap to national security , and the us economy – a focus of his meetings with india ’s government . those concerning security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous as they have ever been . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between the us and china ; but they are thorny , and lack of resolution makes them more intractable . for india , the issues on obama ’s agenda for visit are enormous and complex , and the options for resolving them are exceptionally limited .
moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have a winner-take-all network , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classes , industries , and regions struggling to compete . owing to social media , the resulting discontent now spreads more quickly than ever before , leading to destructive politics . a combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability elsewhere . according to the un high commissioner for refugees , more than 65 million refugees have been registered last year , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 . this can invite geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorated into a lose-lose scenario , like that already evident in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments remain fragile or failing .
that constitution has marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provides a framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . but such a process is illegal under the spanish nation ’s 1978 constitution . many have cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum in 2014 . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible , . and , as it explicitly states , it is “ based on the spanish nation ’s indissoluble unity , ” ” with sovereignty belonging to the spanish people .
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backwards . ever since the 2008 financial crisis , the us has squandered far too much energy trying to revert to the days of rapid economic expansion . the flawed assumption that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were merely temporary has underpinned policies that have yielded little more than lackluster recoveries while failing to address key problems stemming from high unemployment and rising inequality . the post-crisis era is over , with the “ post-post-crisis world . ” the post-crisis era is ending .
obama has confined himself to forging pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries . these have been emphasized in an “ open letter to obama ” that i have organized and released over signatures of almost 50 of today ’s ’s ’s ’s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . america ’s president is captive to the country ’s labor unions , buying the false narrative that trade with poor countries increases american ranks by driving down wages . indeed , it is notable that , whereas obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 , at least , his address in january 2011 did not . obama ’s regrettable retreat from supporting the doha round is a product of many factors and fallacies .
if it does , the chance of an effective american default would be far higher than it is today . but this is no easy task , especially in the short run . after all , diversification away from dollar assets is the day ’s advice . these new worries are mounting alarm bells in china . some people are even predicting a double-dip recession .
one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , went a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into its decision-making processes , a bold move that could transform capital markets . if this trend continues , with the advancement of environmental or social goals enhancing an investment ’s value , it will strengthen a commitment to sustainability that is already gaining traction among companies worldwide . some 1,260 companies , run by $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are the united nations ’ “ “ 45 trillion ” principles for responsible investment , ” ” which recognizes environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and thus corporate long-term health and market stability – as critical to investors . berkeley , investors worldwide , is increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social-welfare benefits alongside market rates of return . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decision-making processes , a bold move that could transform capital markets .
the perception today is that america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers is bringing down their own unique worldviews to global affairs . in international politics , perceptions matter , sometimes more than reality . but this multipolar dynamic is also generating instability . more diversified perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . in a sense , this might seem like a good thing .
in britain and some european countries , animal-welfare states have become politically salient , with pressure on parliamentary incumbents having mounted . to its credit , the british egg industry has embraced the situation , developing new , and fewer harsh methods to keep hens . the european union has established the scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on farm sites , and the committee has recommended banning battery cage alongside some other forms of close confinement in portugal and calves . some supermarket chains have even stopped doing their eggs from battery hens . a ban on battery cages in the eu was eventually adopted in 1999 , but it would be necessary to ensure that producers had ample time to phase out facilities in which they had been investing , its implementation was delayed until january 1 , 2012 .
but at a time when every digital service has become more and more personalized , why should social policy remain confined to twentieth-century philosophy and twentieth-century solutions ? this may sound utopian ; in a sense , it is . for example , early school-leavers could be endowed with points for later uses in professional training . more broadly , the eu has been able to continue to assist people only when social risks materialize , public policy could promote individuals throughout their work life , by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . finally , similar accounts could serve as public-policy vehicles .
indeed , outspokenness has been a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many cabinet secretary , bank officer , and ngo ’s representative have experienced his blunt criticism , as well as his effusive praise . the world bank has insisted on seeing corruption as a form of cancer , and that fighting it is made synonymous with the struggle against poverty . but corruption poses the single largest obstacle to growth and development in many countries , particularly because it deploys resources from the poor . it has been used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles has been deemed taboo .
the g20 ’s formation , for example , was an act of improvisation intended to defer genuine financial reform . but it is a status quo power with respect to the united nations system , as well as steadfastly opposes enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership . it is a revisionist power concerning the global financial architecture that is seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . china is not on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . indeed , modest measures implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have been confined to the economic sphere , with the hard core of international relations – peace and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of a handful of countries .
the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary basis ( for example , ethnicity , race , or religion ) is especially damaging in this respect . whether it will depend heavily on whether important instruments promoting equality of opportunity , principally in education and health care , are universally accessible . intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of equality of opportunity . it can result in gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . rising inequality of outcomes need not reduce intergenerational mobility .
last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever before , creating a truly global crowd-investment marketplace that offers equity to train companies . the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into a big pool of finance – not to mention connections and expertise – from small investors . other increasingly prominent trends – for example , collaborative consumption , paying per use , and sharing , and leasing models – could offer similarly powerful momentum for such efforts . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms now exist , several explicitly targeted clean technologies . if applied wisely , such platforms could take up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy .
in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across borders into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that would inevitably fetch the tide of cholera outbreaks . in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as eastern pakistan , declared its independence from pakistan . bangladesh knows that wartime cholera is all too well , and that it is not responsible for that reason . as many people lay dying , a pioneering physician named dilip mahalanabis seized a chance in a state of desperate situations . the standard of care at the time was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely .
madrid – on april 22 , 2017 , 2017 , the international earth day marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most significant step forward to date when it comes to the global fight against climate change . but its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s energy policies . in 2016 , the hottest year on record , average , global temperatures were 0.9 º c above their twentieth-century average . the paris agreement ’s main goal is to prevent average world temperatures from rising above 2º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2100 .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in the history of humankind , as well as the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hypertrophile pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibility coupled with crises of global responsibility . could the fact that humanity thinks only within the boundaries of what lies within its sphere of vision , and is incapable of remembering also what lies beyond , owing to the loss of metaphysical certitude , of the loss of god ? but how to recover in the human mind a shared attitude toward what lies above us if people everywhere are to feel compelled to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? is there something of a sense in trying to turn human minds to the heavens , when such a turn would merely aggravate conflicts on earth among our various deities ? even more succinctly , might not today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability in the world as a whole , and for its future , was the logical consequence of a modern concept of the world as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws formulated for god-knows – what is to say , a concept that does n’t question , or seeks the deeper meaning of existence and renounces any and renounces of metaphysics ?
major reform of how the transition is financed also needs to be achieved . at the heart of such a transformation is the energy transition that , though underway , lags or has stalled in much of the rest of the world . at the heart of such a transformation is the energy transition that , though underway , lags or has stalled in much of the rest of the world . a more ambitious effort by power providers and major end-abusers is critical because they expand affordable , reliable clean-energy services to everyone who needs them . those are the decisions that will drivethe world needs .
martin čihák of the international monetary fund , reported in july 2007 that , of the 47 central banks that had been found to publish financial stability house reports ( brazil ) , “ virtually all ” have given a “ positive overall assessment ” of their domestic financial system ” in their most recent reporting . and yet , though these central banks have failed the us congress prior to the crisis , they should still play a leading role in preventing another crisis . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed ; indeed , central bankers are the logical people to fill that role . that is the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam lake group [ pedd//squamlakegroup.org/think tanks of the 15 academic financial economists to whom i belong have reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system . new haven – central bankers worldwide have failed to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 .
that credo has benefited tens of millions of newcomers and immeasurably strengthened america . whereas vowing during the presidential campaign to end daca , he also acknowledged a moral case for preserving it , saying that he would face a “ very , very hard , ” choice . yet , apparently , convinced that daca ’s beneficiaries took jobs away from their citizens , he concluded that the same hearts and compassion were necessary “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ” sadly , in making that choice , the us president chose to turn away from a classic american vision engraved on the pedestal of a statue of liberty in new york city harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s ’s poem that begins , “ giving me tired , your wretched , your huddled masses of yearning to breathe free . ” and , even after the repeal was reported , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue ” with heart and compassion .
amlo ’s decision to lower public-sector wages has already led many higher-end civil servants to seek employment elsewhere . attempting to accomplish these valuable tasks while paying below-market wages is a penny wise option but a pound of folly . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need adequate resources to win their tough battles . those in the right to early retirement take it up , rather than waiting for amlo ’s cuts . amlo ’s decision to lower public-sector wages has already led many high-ranking civil servants to seek employment elsewhere .
and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ° celsius ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels , far exceeding the two degrees identified by climate scientists as a threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private companies , and civil-society groups should be established in three major areas . to be sure , the third industrial revolution needs help , but it is a part of the world ’s poorest countries . the first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive down renewable-energy costs , at least for fossil-fuel-based power within a decade . moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour is hard to beat . at a stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , nearly one billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated a desire to do something about global warming by switching from their lights to their hour . in a show of official solidarity , the lights also walked out at many parts of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from the opera house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york city ’s empire building , london ’s great ben , paris ’s eiffel tower , and skylines by both hong kong and las vegas . first , organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 by the local chapter of the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and participation levels ( both individual and official ) that generates exploded in the last few years , to a point that there is barely a earth ’s corner that the campaign has had little impact on it . sao paulo , as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour is hard to beat .
nonetheless , the undertow of euro-scepticism in british politics has never diminished , and has been manifest in cameron ’s speech . in essence , the british have been pointing out that a loose confederation of nation-states cooperating on trade is as much european as the eu needs . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas has been accepted only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others have done just that . indeed , in his speech at the time , cameron was unable to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice . but britain has joined the european community , not only a free-trade area that cameron now evidently wants .
estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of the air-pollution-related deaths occur in low – to middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population . coal-fired power is also the primary source of carbon dioxide , the leading greenhouse-gas responsibility for climate change , which causes about 150,000 premature deaths annually , and threatens pervasive risks this century and beyond . to be sure , the coal industry has helped billions of people escape poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power plants have underpinned the nearly 700 % annual growth in per-capita incomes since 1990 . but human health is at greater risk in countries that are burning more coal . research by the global commission on the us economy and climate action last year calculated that particulate matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s highest coal-consuming economy in 2010 .
in politics , this can be dangerously dangerous , because it encourages basing decisions , regardless of how weighty on whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails . but sometimes that desire appears to be overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . indeed , democracy nowadays embraced a pop culture of fast-tracking fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow ; and there are always more waiting in the wings . the call for more referenda both reflects and fuels this trend . referenda on the most part are for the most part of the snapshots .
unless i know a person ’s name , i might not even know what company it ’s about . the best subject line asserts what the message is about and signals an desired response : the invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . or , “ investment proposal ” for your consideration , ” ” ” or “ “ “ “ “ “ serve ” as a reference ? ” unfortunately , i receive lots of messages headlined , “ update . ” the best lines say what the message is about and signals the desired response : the invitation to speak in paris on july 14 .
but it is far from apparent that sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national people ’s congress , and the country ’s ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer for political economics and the former chief economist for the imf . and yet the changes currently being afoot may simply turn things around . india ’s octogenarian prime minister manmohan singh recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . economists worldwide took notice of the advent of raghuram rajan as the chief economist in the finance ministry .
the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a strong commitment to the pursuit of truth is also demanded . policymakers will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only when the public cares about the truth and punishes politicians when it catch up in deliber­ments . we must jettison the tacit assumption that political discourse is intended to foster a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . these can not be identi­cal to a scientific method , but they should be similar in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria that political views are supposed to be judged . what we need is the implementation of new ground rules for political discourse .
the explanations range from anthropological to borderline racist : indians lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , run tracks , equipment , and financing . but those rationales will not do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , periodically rake in their medals . we are a developing country that is said ; after all , it is not only your eyes against its , your legs against hers ; but what you can do against their trainer ; their runs shoe ; its runs shoe ; its ergodynamic costume ; its titanium archer ’s bow . there are structural and infrastructural explanations : lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , run tracks , facilities , and financing . why are indian athletes performing so badly ?
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for the new american century ( pnac ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to overthrow saddam hussein . not coincidentally , the bush administration included ten of the pnac ’s 25 signatories of the pnac ’s founding statements on principles , including dick cheney as us vice president and donald rumsfeld , as us defense secretary . and , having won the us presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq to be one of its top two security priorities . soon enough , the bush administration has become obsessed with promoting the idea that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive proof . as early as january 1998 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report saying , “ we do n’t know with any precision how much we do n’t know ” about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has changed drastically . the most important difference between 2009 and 1979 was the revolution itself . the clerical elite had gradually lost power to military-security groups , from whose ranks of president mahmoud ahmadinejad had emerged . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of a narrow ruling stratum and a much broader pro-shia brand of support for administration officials and political mobilization . research evolutions give birth to a new political class , and iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s islamic revolution was no exception .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . but we should not exaggerate the significance of this perspective .
research shows that many girls worldwide – and particularly those in the global south – are simply not ready for menarche ; education can help . finally , we need fact-based solutions . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed their school because of their lack of access to clean sanitary products . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect could be dramatic . all too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking .
under these conditions , it would be all the more surprising if depositors were not rushing to withdraw their funds from greek banks . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . economists have long understood that , far from being a credible lender of last resort , banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling trust crises . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral . that lender of last resort can be monetary or fiscal , and in greece both kinds are in doubt .
president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , as well as his cyber attacks against the us and others , however intended to compel russia to appear great again , merely worsen the country ’s long-term prospects . in the short run , however , declining countries often take greater risks and become more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition of hard power use by states to seize territory from their neighbors . this has created a political dilemma for the us . russia , almost completely dependent on the revenues of its energy resources , is a “ one crop economy ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health challenges .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between greece and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all parties involved – and much of europe . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as failed states and economies . greece needs both money and reform – fast and both within the eurozone and the eu . it can ultimately end only with a renewed bailout of greece or with europe ’s plunge into catastrophe .
as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – have made it to fill the power vacuum . indeed , china ’s rise has provided a new orbit for many countries worldwide , particularly developing and emerging economies . his unilateralist approach is likely to push the us into playing catch-up with the china left in its ongoing effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries views as vital , economically , and politically , to its own strategic interests . trump ’s presidency provides new opportunities for china to cement its role as an investment provider and every route to infrastructure and assistance to host countries eager for development . and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic brinkmanship across the african continent ( as well as , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative hegemonic power – one that comes without western colonial baggage or moralizing on democracy and human rights .
urbanites become the kinds of people poised to sacrifice one another in order to appease their appetites : the cannibals . urbanites become the kinds of people poised to sacrifice one another in order to appease their appetites : the cannibals . that , at least , is jean-jacques rousseau ’s metaphor took the view of cities into a pit of human corruption . austin , who lives in a city turns you into a cannibal . rousseau was so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that he “ will rather see men grazing on meadow grass than devours in cities . ”
the question at the beginning of 2019 is what it will mean for the global economy unless this scenario plays out . looking ahead for the 2021-2030 period , the annual gdp growth rate of 8 % ( versus the 10 % pace of this ten years ) and gradual consumption growth to 50 % of gdp would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion by 2030 . if not , could any other country fill that role , even partly ? if apple ’s recent forward guidance points to across-the-board , an indefinite decline in chinese consumption , will american consumers serve as the global economy ’s sole engine of growth over the next decade ? under this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass america ’s in terms of the us dollar .
first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many emerging economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatches , owing to short-term borrowing and long-term lending . yet , unlike many emerging economies , china is not struggling with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , making it a net lender of last resort for the rest of the world . yet , unlike many emerging economies , china is not struggling with currency mismatches , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses that compel it to serve as a net lender of the rest of the world . at least four “ mismatches ” ” lay in the root of past global financial crises ; three of them plague china today . likewise , nor can policymakers afford to ignore the fourth misaligned – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and a relatively higher level of risk-adjusted returns on equity ( roe ) for investors – which has fueled speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality .
the incidents of the last 15 months – beginning with deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by violence in north africa , and tragedies in japan – are confronting the world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy supplies and promises and progress toward clean energy . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and security gains of renewable energy . in recent decades , europe has been the motor of energy-modernization efforts . with a target of 20 gw of solar generating capacity by 2020 , investment in india could quickly grow . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system and creative policies to support that goal will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most notable new market opportunities in living memory .
human ingenuity seems to know no bounds when it comes to dreaming of protectionist barriers . for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or , as arguments for local content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual property , climate policies , dispute solutions , or human rights . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 . in october 1982 , the french government demanded that all japanese admit to imports enter the country through their poitiers , the city hundreds of kilometers from the nearest major shipping port . even with tariffs and quotas , trade can be hindered by subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping legislation , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually reinforce their chances of being reelected by making wilder and more impossible promises – and by causing more economic damage . washington , dc – to defeat populism – must come to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result in a government losing power . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter-century of the twentieth century : a powerful stimulus to use debt to prop up demand ; and a shift toward financing public debt through market-based institutions , under the guise of combating inflation . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice that of world gdp . but such efforts were conducive to deception and delinquency , thereby spurring a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , italy , spain , and russia in 1998 – as well as recessions in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . these trends boosted the public-debt burden , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity generated by private banking activities that were disconnected from transactions in the real economy . the financial sector has since made each effort to project instruments that protect against price fluctuations , turn private-sector debt into tradable financial securities , and gain access to speculative markets .
similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-benefit review program that has identified 40 major money-prioritization projects , reformed global planning processes , and then crafted a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby slashing infrastructure spending by up to 15 % . additional saving opportunities – to the tune of $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . in australia , the state of new south wales has cut approval times by up to 11 % in just one year . and chile ’s national public-investment system evaluates all proposed public projects that use standard forms , practices , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . there is massive scope to accelerate approvals and land acquisition , architecture contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and improvements in collaboration with contractors .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities such as employers , industries , and employees ) , biology , space flight , and many more , encompassing representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – about how to connect them . and this implies a better future , more meaningful responses when we seek to do so . most things are not going to exist in isolation , and most are likely to follow . they have complex interactions with others , and , by representing that information that uses verbs – for example , “ the corporation ” that google has acquired ” vs. a company that google competes with ” ; we can represent the world in a more literal way . most things do not exist in isolation ; they do not .
the forte foundation in america now has followed suit with her own “ board-ready ” list . last year , european commission vice president emmanuel macron issued a wake-up call for voluntary action . the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to retain a certain share of women , up to 60 % . reding has invited corporations to sign on to the gender balance goals of 40 % of female board membership . this proposed mandate has been shaped by frustration .
cambridge – at the dawn of classes every autumn , i tease my students on the following question : is it better to be impoverished in a rich country or affluent country ? the question typically invites a lot and inconclusive debate . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
alternatively , low interest rates could push her ( or her pension fund ) to purchase risky long-maturity bonds . given the dire returns on us savings since 2007 , the prospect of continuing low interest rates might force her to set her up even more money aside . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might thus set her up for a windfall when interest rates ultimately rise . indeed , america may well find itself in the process of adding to its pension crisis to the problem of unemployment . it has rescued , because it wanted enough money to retire .
after all , smooth power transitions are not to be taken for granted . certainly , a zambians ’ achievement can not compete for intervention in libya or the arab spring drama . and yet , what has happened in zambia applies to those developments , and thus relevant everywhere . what made zambia ’s election so important is that the challenger has won . indeed , it has vanquished the incumbent , who truly wanted to maintain its jobs , and who may reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the result .
as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east . its use of hard power has won the civil war for president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , showing how the strategic deployment of an unrestrained military force – witness aleppo ’s utter destruction – may well turn out to be a game-changer . but russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia , and iran , turkey and kurds , plus israel and iran . russia ’s diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria . whereas a policy of neutrality has allowed russia to maintain dialogue with the various sides , it will do no to develop a new regional order .
but , again , the external-financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian electorates soon began to bristle at the reforms demanded by the imf . investors were willing to purchase even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . investors were willing to purchase even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . but , when inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to tread again , closing the external financing gap with an astonishing $ 50 billion loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . with external debt trimmed by re-scheduling , foreign capital flowed once again .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand may have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has been discussing . proponents of helicopter money – either directly crediting citizens with the central bank ’s money funds , or crediting national treasuries to fund infrastructure and other demand-generating activities – rightly argue that it has the advantage of pouring money directly into the hands of those who will spend it . this could take the airing of the incipient asset bubbles , which may be forming and ease the pressures on institutional investors struggling to find the yield that they need to meet their insurance and pension obligations . indeed , a boost to demand might give central banks the opening they need to move interest rates back toward historic norms . an appropriate size of the <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured fashion , headed off the possibility of japanese-style deflationary shocks .
more recently , ban assumed an active role in the gaza crisis . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to warfare , demanding that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . this followed two visits , which he made to haiti during the previous 18 months , and the us-led conference that he sponsored in april , which sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . he also visited the un compound in the heart of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombardment . he has regularly defended the palestinians ’ right to statehood , but he has also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks on south israel .
according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , albeit high economy-wide volatility has been higher in emerging-market economies than in the advanced economies . furthermore , the spillover effects of advanced economies ’ monetary policies extend far beyond financial shocks . emerging economies are also suffering from the effects of the advanced countries ’ external imbalances – in particular , the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surpluses . in the past couple of years , deficit economies in the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy – have pursued massive external adjustments , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large trade surpluses . boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies ; but they are the key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles .
in a country with more than 45 million people under the age of 35 , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a protracted impasse . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short - and medium-term perspective , egyptians will need to answer the vexing question that they have failed for the last six decades to confront : what is egypt ? first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of egypt ’s military , and the unlikelihood of partition in its leadership , makes any widespread violence untenable , especially given the egyptian state ’s struggle against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s severely weakened jihadist groups ’ operating assets in the country . finally , despite egypt ’s major demographic and economic changes over the past four decades , egyptian society still retains its agrarian character , favoring conciliation and compromise . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now be hijacked by passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt for domestic politics through organized structures and processes .
the past decade of the twentieth century , however , was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and genocide in rwanda , and seemed to turn against rights causes again . powerful states , such as china and russia , are not limiting themselves to authoritarian rule at home , but are also encouraging those in other countries engaged in similar practices . the same goes for lesser powers , such as iran and venezuela . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s was a further advance of rights . a factor contributing to its demise was a shift in thinking that transformed the east-west conflict from one that emphasized economic systems .
for the longer-term health of both individual participants and the global system , such relationships need to function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that is widely believed to be credible . as technological innovation further reduces entry barriers to both producers and consumers , such linkages ’ proliferation become even easier , amplifying what already is fundamentally a spaghetti bowl of cross-border interactions and dependencies . supply chains now may have as many important international linkages as domestic ones , and a substantial share of internal demand is met with goods made in part or wholly produced abroad . this is why the current clash between america and china has raised fears of severe damage , especially if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a wider “ trade war . ” if it does not , they risk succumbing to lower levels of growth and welfare .
it is simply a question of whether the us would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west , or to europe ’s food and agricultural standards over those of america . if britain wants to do business with others , it would be forced to agree on a common set of rules . if britain wants to do business with others , it will find only grief and isolation to the eu . this is not to say that it is not about sovereignty , or even satrapy . once it is out in a cold , it will have to decide which economic bloc should align , and then accept that bloc ’s rules .
the gamble has been that a solid , durable recovery would enable banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts . in europe , structural reforms focus on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one major cause of a sluggish economic recovery . but a sluggish growth implies less fiscal revenues and greater demands for payments to cushion hardship , putting downward pressure on government budgets . in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower tariffs and broaden the base .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , questioning whether he would support an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate declaration ( which has undoubtedly been agreed in advance by east german leaders ) concerning the exclusion of west germany ’s communists from the debate . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister party has been a sideshow . nonetheless , dahrendorf was adamant that the npd ’s fate should be determined by voters , rather than by the courts that declared the communist party illegal . thadden himself , by contrast , has avoided making a direct answer , implying that he would not fight alongside his sister .
liquidity remains constrained in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy comprising a non-market-based regulatory regime that is not conducive to long-term investment . to overcome the barriers to investment , we propose creating an asset class that we call buy-and-hold equity ( bhe ) . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure – investment that is thought to be relatively safe , owing to little or no construction risk , and have demonstrated its potential to generate stable cash revenues . though financing for public infrastructure has returned to levels of 2008 , little is being funneled into new projects . this asset class would sit well between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it for 15 years or longer .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . he is devoting the international monetary fund to expand its $ 3.4 billion credit , a promising freer elections in december 2010 – – only to burn down that bridge to a brutal crackdown when faced with adverse electoral results and the biggest protests his regime has ever seen . but , following a recent 64 % currency devaluation , the clock appears to be running out on his prolonged misrule . now , russia has entered a harder line , calling for soaring borrowing costs , which are in any case insufficient to rescue the regime . washington , dc , belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival .
but , fortunately for anyone with persistence and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like sieve . in its current struggle with google , for example , china ’s ’s ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintain old thought control . but liu ’s jailing also demonstrates in the starkest terms that china ’s dereliction of human rights flows to the rest of the world , alongside massacres of chinese goods . the great strides of china ’s economy over the last 30 years are something of all chinese to celebrate . indeed , it has become increasingly obvious that china has opened up its economy only to maintain the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power rather than respect and enhance ordinary chinese ’s lives .
at the world economic forum in davos in singapore in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted at the prospect of continued reform with startling speed . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ the empowerment of the party ’s global leadership is the core issue . ” given these mounting concerns , implementation risks now being presented in a very different light . liu , a lord tactician , appears to be underscoring the connection between leadership power and the pace of reform . given these mounting concerns , implementation risks are now being presented in a very different light .
a similar picture , albeit on a diminishing scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves the urgent attention of government leaders as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . roma are the continent ’s fastest growing , and the most vulnerable minority . a similar picture , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . unchanged , this lingering poverty line risks becoming a permanent drag on european prosperity that would be tragic for roma and non-roma alike .
within the political front , a key lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security . but where its actions are deficient , it is the right and responsibility for china ’s central government to intervene . to help find solutions , the us has pursued its pest ( political , economic , sociocultural , and technological ) analyses concerning hong kong ’s current predicament and future prospects . within the “ one country , ” two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers to address internal security matters . it does not have to be this way .
above all , it needs a program of ideas for research and development , education and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population in all member countries . and this could mark the beginning of a slow-moving process of european disintegration . the european parliament elections are , on average , less than four months away from the european parliament elections . should they fail to do so , the prospect of a parliament dominated by populist forces will become a reality . pro-european forces need to campaign for a coordinated effort to counter a cyclical slowdown and , most important , for a cohesive and aggressive policy toward europe ’s long-term structural problems .
when asked whether america was ready to become the world ’s second-largest economy , they had been reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility of an american becoming “ “ “ “ “ “ number two ” amount to career suicide ” for an american politician . by contrast , intellectuals have a special obligation to think the unthinkable and to speak the unspeakable . they are meant to consider every opportunity , even disagreeable , to prepare the population for the prospective trend . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the aspirations of those who placed them in office .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire sectors of the economy at a breathtaking pace , has been dubbed the fourth industrial revolution . in the coming years , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and switzerland . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to economics , and mexico is no exception .
a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risking their own capital to launch new firms to pay roughly 50 % of their startup costs in taxes . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , while unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . in fact , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . for example , payroll-tax cuts – which would enable small business-owners and entrepreneurial people to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – may require lowering rents . likewise , italy ’s real-estate tax stands at around 2 % of total government revenues , compared with the oecd average of 4 % and the government intends to slash it further .
kaczyński knows full well that his party commands most public support , and that the ecj will most likely be unable to act in time . current polls indicate that pis ’s popularity ratings have risen to around 40 % , more than twice that of the previous ruling party , civic platform ( po ) . and , though thousands of – perhaps tens of thousands – of protesters have gathered before the polish supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for the pis in the 2015 elections . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that , “ the european commission ” will not break poland ’s will regarding the reforms … unless we reform the judiciary , other reforms will have little sense , because sooner or later they would be negated , pulled back by the courts now . ” this suggests that , while poles might not agree to pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to take much risks for free courts or for liberal-democratic principles generally .
there is also some routine praise for the two presidents they have been working with , say , george w. bush and barack obama , reprise of their frustration with those who did not see the world their way , and disband their solutions , such as sheila bair of the us federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and pesky members of congress . it is puzzled that they have been able to reach a consensus on a rather radical agenda . the big interest lies not so heavily in narrative chapters covering the same ground as in their own policy recommendations for the future . three proposals , in particular , should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard . tim thought that … hank took a different perspective , both ” ” ” ” ” and so on , as if the three musketeers had been interviewed by an oral historian .
this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has been stalled indefinitely . likewise , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom feel that trump is arrogant , and only 50 % continue to believe that the us and the uk have a special relationship now in office . sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . in germany , just 6 % of respondents feel that he is qualified to hold his current office , and 91 % regard him as arrogant . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % view america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , both of which are headed by populist right-wing governments .
in his inaugural address in 2009 , us president barack obama stated that “ “ america first ” can not solve the most pressing problems on our own , and the world can not be solved without america . shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton declared , “ “ “ america first ” can not resolve the most pressing problems on our own , and the world can not possibly resolve them without america . ” today , it is far from clear how the balance of power is measured , much less how to develop successful strategies for survival . conventional wisdom has always held that the state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age it might be the state ( or the non-state ) with the best narrative that wins . in the sixties , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from commerce and finance ; eighteenth-century france has acquired from its larger population and its armies ; and nineteenth-century british power has rested on its industrial primacy and its naval
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble has sparked controversy when , evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he said that “ france will be happy if someone can force the parliament to reform itself . ” a public-consensus promoting difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters ’ ability to grasp and accept tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative . the truth is that , of course , authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability will inevitably breed corruption and inefficiencies , problems with which china now wrestling . the public consensus underpinning difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters ’ ability to grasp and accept tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative .
he turned to the university of nebraska , where he received his undergraduate degree and acquired hybrid corn and other improvements to the university ’s development . he then tracked inputs and weather-related conditions that were rarely accomplished at that time . my father realized that he could n’t go it alone , and that he would need better access to funding . the most significant change my father made was in his thinking : he came to think of farms not as subsistence operations , but as family-owned businesses . my father realized that he could n’t go it alone , requiring better access to funding .
second , europe must take the lead in responsible resource use and become a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , an estimated eight billion tons of materials are processed into the eu ’s energy or products annually . and it means making europe alongside our auto industry the first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . it also means applying strict co2 emission limits to new passenger cars , public transportation , and commercial sea and air transport . just 0.6 billion tons of this year , just 7.5 % , originate in recycling .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into america ’s electoral foreign-policy debates , including by preparing a public-discussion paper . this is not simply a matter of semantics ; such a change will require the us to re-conceive its role in the world . but the payoff , for both america and the liberal world order that it has created , would be substantial . the key to success will be america ’s ability to retain the best – and abandon the worst – of that most of american notions : exceptionalism . from my perspective , the group ’s one european union member state , an overarching message should be that the us must conceive of itself not as “ the indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as “ the indispensable partner . ”
but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita suggest that china ’s economic “ retardation ” ” began well before its cobble with the west . from 1,500 years to 1870 , per capita income barely shifted from $ 600 , while the uk has quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) , and even spain has more than doubled . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply a “ restoration ” of the country enjoyed before nineteenth-century western intrusions had disrupted its harmonious system . outsiders misread that system – “ “ built ” on a clearly defined scheme , ” ” ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-line royal legitimacy at the very top , ” and “ the scholar gentry to administer the affairs of state-owned ” – as a recipe for stagnation . china ’s political stability and the relative absence of violence thus came to the detriment of economic dynamism , rather than in harmony with it .
that principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , such as the one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . moreover , morocco is a committed and longstanding members of the us . the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex region . its political stability , open economy , and balanced international relations increasingly align with america ’s regional interests . morocco is well positioned to promote security and development across northwest africa and beyond .
most of my fellow male faculty of female faculty are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven , testosterone-driven types , but in their scholarly careers depict two kinds of typically male behavior . as i cultivate older , i am no longer certain why this is so important , but our male members of our species seem to think that it is . the first is an compulsion to establish entirely trivial facts about science . questions among women ’s faculty , particularly in the fundamental sciences , are far more complicated . most of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven , testosterone-inspired kinds , but in their scholarly careers depicting two kinds of typically male behavior .
this , together with the prominence of the consultative council ( which includes the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , the french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , the brookings institution fellow ) , and the sensitivity of minority rights in general , combined to give the national project , regional , and international notice . so far , syria ’s authorities have failed to respond to a tharwa project . some in the syrian government might realize this . but the project appears to represent the kind of activity that can help to produce visions for change . so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to a tharwa project .
every new bilateral deal , each chapter in globalization , should be measured against new criteria . if we are to learn something from the ongoing crisis , it must be to start asking the right questions . will they facilitate genuine development and offer dignified opportunities for those who are economically displaced ? how sustainable , and how evenly distributed , will the macroeconomic benefits of this ? that growth reflects the flawed economic model of the pre-crisis years that relied on indifference to where growth originated , how sustainable it was , and that benefited from it .
cambridge – in a euphoric moment immediately after the soviet union ’s collapse , few would have guessed that ukraine – an industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural resources – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , has managed nearly to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades .
here currency appreciation is already occurring , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 , and , to some extent , may already be saying to be excessive ( for example , in brazil ) . so far , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , much like they did in the wake of the global financial crisis . now they are considering other major emerging markets as well . of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , much like they did before the global financial crisis . why , then , should the emerging-market countries of central banks commit this strange kind of financial intermediation that represents a major cost , because private-sector dollar returns are higher than those of us reserves ?
the final blow came when interbank lending , which is at the heart of the financial system , had been disrupted , owing to the banks ’ need to husband their resources and be unable to trust their counterparties . the asset-backed commercial paper market came to a standstill , and the special investment vehicles established by banks to obtain mortgages out of their balance sheets could no longer receive outside financing . credit expansion now needs to follow a period of contraction , because some new instruments of credit and practices are unsound and unsustainable . that has made the crisis all the more severe than any since world war ii . central banks had to inject an unprecedented amount of money and extend credit on an unprecedented array of securities to a broader range of institutions than before .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . europe ’s signatories have established a special mechanism to facilitate trade and enterprise with iran at the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china extended their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic marking the first time in the history of the western alliance that america ’s european allies joined forces with its rivals . likewise , britain , france , germany , russia , and china opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the agreement and doing everything possible to persuade iran ’s leaders to press ahead with it .
according to the african progress panel , poor african households would save $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels – money that they could devote to spending on education , health , and productive investment . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people account for some of the highest energy prices . an efficient way to address this problem exists : solar-power technologies . firms that provide such panels would obviously benefit substantially from tapping this large new market . in fact , firms that provide those panels would benefit considerably from tapping this large new market .
even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising above 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . this process has been unfolding for centuries , but it has accelerated in recent decades , as select few have acquired ever-larger shares of overall wealth and political clout . the wealthiest 10 % of people account for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % generate 10 % of their emissions . even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising at a rate of more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . the wealthiest 10 % of people account for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % generate 10 % of their emissions .
imports account for about 15 % of america ’s gdp . and when growth decelerates , owing to the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . allow for some substitution from more expensive imported goods , and the figure drops below 1 % . imports account for about 15 % of america ’s gdp , while imports account for 15 % of american gdp . foreign central banks can do likewise .
the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable equilibrium of individual rights , including the right to citizenship and the public good . and yet simply revoking citizenship fails to address the problem of leaving at a large suspected terrorist who might then engage elsewhere unless , as with sakr , he is killed . suppose that the government gets it right 19 times out of 20 , when it relies on suspicion of engaging in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . if this were the case with decisions made by the uk ’s government in 2013 , there would still be a high likelihood that an innocent naturalized citizen would be rendered stateless . the ability to revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence at the public is one reason why the government may prefer this course to arresting and attempting terrorism suspects .
in particular , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home ; and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . government and business together should fund new research and development to drive costs even lower . governments should set limits on emissions ; the private sector should compete to supply low-cost solutions . as old fossil-fuel plants age and shut out , they should be replaced with clean power generation , for example through renewable-energy auctions . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower costs for renewable energy systems , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream uses like electric vehicles , electric heating and cooking power , and a new breed of hydrogen .
in the alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta may end up proving too unwieldy to be workable . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of the parvetail ( the brics , minus russia ) . what mikta countries share are rapid economic growth and rising influence beyond their own borders . they have development challenges , but so are models of economic dynamism and innovations with a stake in how post-wwii global institutions and rules ought to be reshaped .
the objective was to spur portfolio investors to shift to equities and other assets , with the resulting rise in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , owing to the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers , and spending added more to national debt than to gdp . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policies , ” ” ” ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate extremely low for an extended period of time . much of the “ stimulus ” simply financed increased spending by state governments that went to pay for in other ways . too little was done to close the output gap , leaving behind continued downward pressure on demand .
despite various starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to see europe as a cap stone to constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone toward a closer union . in denmark , my own country is an economic readiness , not an issue . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on a failure by europe ’s ’s ’s supporters to explain the gap between that uncontested policy and the full participation of euro membership . as a result , denmark may well be the last to vote , but not necessarily to join . indeed , danish voters saw most of the contributions of euro membership already because of the danish krone ’s unchanged link to the dm , then to europe , over the last 15 years .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that north korea must first move toward denuclearization , before any form of economic aid is offered . but there is little reason why the international effort to ensure north korea ’s ’s ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . we need not assume that these goals can not be pursued at the same time . on the contrary , it may be impossible to win north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s assent to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change .
at the heart of europe ’s ’s political crisis lies in the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . and no one should doubt that both national and political parties mean what they are saying . the bonds of the bonds that characterizes this conflict can irreparably harm both the eu ’s soul and the entire european project . what once was the relationship among equals has given way to a face-offs among debtors and creditors . rather than enhancing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to massive distributional conflicts .
unless its competitors take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly actions -- like those taken by microsoft against netscape , its rival in online browser market , by pouring a fortune into the making of its internet explorer and then sharing it for free -- the first firm to establish a dominant market position will reap high returns as long as its industry of industries lasts . the bigger the market , the bigger the cost advantage , and the bigger the size of the market . in a section of the `` new economy '' dominated by manufacturers ' economies of scale and consumers ' economies of scale , a firm that sets the lead in terms of market share gains almost overwhelming benefits . moreover , higher-value-added information goods also favor consumers . a version with the largest market becomes the norm ; it is the simplest to figure out how to use , the simplest to find support for , and one that works best with other products ( which is obviously designed to work best with it ) .
this is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . creating safe and legal pathways for refugees to reach europe is one of the most urgent priorities . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how much to admit , and it should implement organized ways to make them easier to join . this is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . such a system would preserve migrants and safeguard europe ( by enabling it to vet applicants fully ) .
in recent years , american political and political institutions have become more polarized than the distribution of opinions in the american public would suggest . three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , and say the quality of life there is excellent or good ; 40 % say that working with others in their communities is the most critical that they can do . as an editorial in the economist larry summers recently concluded , “ america ’s political system has been geared to making legislation at the federal level a problem , not an easy one . ” citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have changed as dramatically as their responses to poll questions . the us economy ’s post-2008 economic downturn was exacerbated .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . new york city – history at any moment – can be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or , as a moving picture , telling us not only where we are but where we are and where we may be headed . it is a distinction with an outsize differential .
this does not necessarily imply inundating people with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach may lead to desensitization . for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter traffic , leverages the city ’s well-known innovative capacity while tackling congestion . likewise , innovation can drive pollution abatement . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy to tackle air pollution . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while offering equitable access to services among residents , should subsidize the central government .
after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for a comprehensive deal – could be launched again . perhaps , but so far , conventional solutions have proven unworkable , even catastrophic . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . back then , the most urgent priority is a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . everything else having already failed , this may be the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians .
first , the european financial stability facility ( efsf ) must serve to rescue the banking system as much as eu member states do . despite this added task , the scale of the rescue package could remain the same , because any amount used for recapitalization or mismanagement by governments reduces the amount that governments need to undertake . and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of a rescue operation . bringing the banking system under european supervision , rather than abandoning it in the hands of national authorities , would be a fundamental improvement that would help to rebuild trust . this would allow the sovereign debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis .
while no one knows that the position corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some trade-union bosses who back him , might decide that the eu is the affluent man club , thereby precluding the much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership . third , at some point over the coming year , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union . second , without an effective and responsible opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and overly focused on their own supporters . on the contrary , at the beginning of may , may ’s government will be able to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has gained wary esteem , rather than liked . in this scenario , leaders of the conservative party ’s far-right component are likely to think that they can dispense with offering disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn anyway .
after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , meaning that the government provided substantial amounts to additional capital two months later . america ’s government felt it had a weak hand , because it was not prepared to allow aig to default on any of its responsibilities . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , meaning that the government provided substantial amounts of additional capital to them two months later . america ’s government felt that it had a weak hand , because it was not prepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , meaning that the government provided substantial amounts to additional capital .
israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and continued rocket fire on civilian targets within the country . in some ways , hamas ’s ’s ’s coup makes things brighter . at last , the world must recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s were fully dashed . israel has long decided that it had no interest in reneging on its control over the gaza strip . gaza is ruled by a totally hostile regime .
by the late 1970s , growth had begun to slow in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that had super-charged business . the aberrant periods in us history are those of the century , or so years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecoms , and transportation had fundamentally reshaped societies . technological innovation and demography are now headwind rather than tailwind , for growth and financial engineering can not save the day . the global population has grown more than 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , and then more than doubled over the ensuing 50 years , with economies growing much faster than during previous centuries . human lives have become markedly more productive , and life expectancies have risen dramatically .
the dpj ’s presidency , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp foreign secretary general , is exemplar of this muddled legacy . japan appears condemned to tolerate chronic and nonsensical political trench warfare until some crisis powers realignment of political parties along the lines of the ideological and policy lines . the core of japan ’s ’s political inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system that emerges from the ldp and the dpj , owing to parties ’ divisions actually devoid of consistent ideological and policy differences . both parties include the conservatives and the liberals , the defense hawks , and the doves . the dpj ’s presidency , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp foreign secretary general , is exemplar of this muddled legacy .
moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . that would require the conservative rebellions , the opposition liberal democrats , and also the mps who quit the labour party in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – a tall order . but bringing down the government would be insufficient to halt a no-deal brexit . likewise , the motley garrison of the insurgents would need to endorse the formation of a caretaker government that seeks to extend brexit , calling a general election there , and possibly also commands a second referendum . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government .
instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee to allow it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for whom it pays a miniscule tax to its irs tax . as a result , those profits should be taxed at the expense of the us economy . asi ’s earnings stem from apple ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which rely on research and development , have been conducted exclusively in america ( most of it has underpinned by federal government finance ) . this arrangement has also required the usually vigilant american internal revenue service to play along . as a result , these profits should be taxed in the us .
starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most exposure . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , and it generates the kind of electoral polarization that the pekos have nourished . each of them has accrued ( or retained ) power through polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . this political strategy is , no doubt , effective ; it is a political strategy . the yukos ’s political style was enabled by modern news media , scrambling for audiences sharing , simplifying sensationalization and issues .
this suggestion may be amusing the coming from a child , but there is nothing amusing when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to complex policies involving science and technology . britons have had their say in a summer either on whether they want gene-spliced , or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields , and food production . the head of the british debates ’ organizing committee , professor malcolm grant , has referred to them as a “ unique experiment in determining what ordinary people really think once heard about all the arguments . ” local governments and other organizations have hosted hundreds of additional public meetings . to gauge public opinion in advance of a scheduled decision for later this year on whether to permit commercial planting of gm crops , a british government-sponsored british government ( at great expense ) several public debates around the country .
today , european governments appear willing to allow putin to buy votes with whom he would destroy the eu . and , with public opinion polls revealing that a substantial minority of europeans is decreasing in line with putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato appears to be making real headway . in fact , the kremlin is funding a number of such parties . there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders eager to return to business as usual with russia , as well as the academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after its collapse , see a chance for vindication . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes with whom it would hang on .
it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form ; in many parts of the region , the cloudburst is now all it takes to wash it away . in germany alone , there is construction projects that account for more than 75 hectares a day . improper agricultural practices are also blamed : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizers , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting soils and changing their structures . according to a world bank study , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – land that would mine millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous lands – have experienced large-scale investment . likewise , global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels has been growing , in turn driving land values away from international investors ’ attention .
iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at putting pressure on defiant states . that is an eerie idea , given the fact that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded america ’s domestic weaknesses . an american war against iran is plausible only as a response to the blatant and imminent iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as the high-profile terrorist attacks , the invasion of the gulf ally , or the disruption of free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any such red line . convinced that history will judge the president by his success in containing the iranian threat , the us broder also predicts that a war with iran would reignite the american economy .
in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continue to impede the investment required to modernize public-sector companies and put a major roadblock on the path to land reform . the imf ’s economic framework still fails to provide for counter-cyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy in a slump . it is here that germany should take pause to reflect on its record . for example , when a government borrows to buy land , it is treated like debt , but an offsetting transaction when it sells its land through a mortgage effectively goes unrecognized . whereas germany ’s president can not intervene in the country ’s day-to-day governance , his voice will no doubt be influential .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as america ’s president , but questions about russia ’s ’s ’s interference in the election will not go away . to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin has favored trump over his challenger , former us secretary of state hillary clinton . in our view , america ’s intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by aiding trump , the kremlin has been advancing its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not fully compelling . still , one key question is often lost on the eu : why have russian president vladimir putin done so ? but there is a gap between hopes for an outcome and will go to great lengths – and incurring great risks – to bring it about .
nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts , not least in its convergence of vision and implementation . it is fair to say that the usually ministry of staid statistics has stolen from thunder from this year ’s budget . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances the ease of doing business in india , while targeting improved delivery mechanisms for welfare regimes . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an annual rate of 8-8.5 % . no amount of budget changes could generate such a mark , a cost of free growth acceleration .
japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth has achieved its goal , but the country has developed only modest military and soft power . following the failure of its imperialist greater east asian co-prosperity scheme of the 1930 ’s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan has turned to a strategy that has minimized military power and relied on strategic alliances with the us . but , following the depletion of its maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders have turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development . in its first decades , communist china established its military power , simultaneously using the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and the third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . but it has also followed conciliatory diplomatic policies toward britain and the us , spending substantial resources to make itself attractive overseas .
at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to maintain reform momentum . regulatory reforms are starting to alleviate shadow-banking risks , and even some ghost towns are reviving market forces . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since early this year , and the authorities seem well on a path to striking a carbon-intensity goal established in 2010 . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders need to build on this progress , agreeing to maintain the reform momentum . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as it takes down a retired politburo standing committee member , china ’s ’s ’s ’s most powerful body .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
waiting lists for hospital beds will be cut by one-third in less than two years . thus , ministers proclaim that street crime will be halved by next spring , or that the share of every generation will go to universities to up to 50 % in the next five years . above all , this means that they are setting performance targets . in keeping with the spirit of time , governments introduce business criteria for measuring efficiency -- and “ success , ” more broadly , -- of public services . this method of governance makes it clear that , at long last , we can hold policymakers accountable by setting out whether targets were reached or not met .
this helps explain why , with more than half of his term left , the person who led the popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori is holding a mere 7 % of his popularity rating today -- the lowest ranking of any peruvian leader since 1980 , when democracy was re-emerging . toledo has assumed the presidency planning to dismantle the corruption that has marked fujimori 's administrations and put an end to the rule of his crooked intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos . toledo has argued that he will send all dishonest officials to jail -- words that captured the imagination of peruvians , who are keen to see criminal politicians brought to justice . instead of kicking the ball to victory , he aims to do so by his opponent scores . peru 's president alejandro toledo devised a new extreme sport , a soccer game in which he is the sole player .
conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debates with carter in 1980 is often credited for his victory . in 2004 , not long before the election , osama bin laden unleashed videotapes , which may have helped president bush defeat us senator john kerry . another event that might turn the tables would be the “ october surprise ” linked to terrorism that might shift the agenda away from a financial crisis back toward security , the republican party ’s stronger impeachment proceedings . in 2004 , not long before the election , osama bin laden unleashed videotapes that may have helped president bush defeat us senator john kerry . from bin laden to trump , bush ’s policies were more useful to his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry might have been .
so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? that search , after all , threatens to divide the nation ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s elite . would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance to politics bring forth an ideal solution to the putin problem ? let the us compare the two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 , and lugovoi in 2007 . but i see a practical turn in all of this that nobody has been broached so far .
the un sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) to eliminate extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 are completely dependent on continued economic growth via trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and , more generally , undermining the liberal world order will severely harm the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help the world ’s coal miners in west virginia . such thinking also poses a grave threat to the lives of the world ’s most vulnerable . their mythical tribe has been great in some of the country ’s mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? the strength will always be managed , but the weak will bear the burden of the nostalgic protectionism that erodes the benefits of globalization .
without question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions have developed . moreover , the chinese state has resolved coordination problems that are neither easily nor efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and governance capabilities may be at different stages of development . at the same time , state involvement is needed to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive that markets alone can not be counted on to do . some argue that the state – and , through extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role to play , in order to uphold the social stability required to sustain economic development . some argue that the state – and , through extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development .
but the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . almost all of the political actors in egypt , as elsewhere in the arab world , recognize the need for economic reform . the government ’s cut in fuel subsidies last year was not followed by additional reforms , and the required tax increases were delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it . but the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will be above 11 % of gdp this year .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that , among the near-one-half that are cut back on public expenditures , common adjustment measures involve public-sector wage cuts or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . how many children will miss out on education , because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children need to work to supplement their family ’s income ? and yet that may very well occur . after all , such adjustment measures are often adopted without careful examination of their social impact . how many poor children will miss out on education , because teachers are absent because of low pay rates , or simply because poor children must work to complement their family income ?
the first scenario is dismal : germany is failing to integrate refugees economically and economically ; political discontent surges ; and arrivals are becoming increasingly frustrated with their plight . if anything , at worst , a terrorist strike had to take place – especially one that might tie itself to refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society . indeed , germany ’s future might have evolved into two paths . the world has a big stake in what the scenario prevails . any move that frustration embolden right-wing populists , and could lead to violence from both sides .
at that point , a democratic transition will most likely require the army to play a more active role in protecting the protesters . at the moment , a democratic transition will most likely require the army to play a more active role in protecting the protesters . at the same time , successful political transitions help if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own behind ” the protests and the resulting transition . the army ’s decision , on the other hand , to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or horse – to charge in cairo ’s ’s tahrir square and strike thousands of anti-government protesters has been a classical “ militant ” military as government ” movement . what is obvious is that the interests of the “ military as an institution ” depend on the army ’s capacity to establish much greater separation from the regime .
given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in american courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to both an international and domestic political assault . evidently , american policymakers are increasingly receptive to the international criminal justice potential to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . nevertheless , the scale of american cooperation with the icc has gone beyond even the constructive role that the obama administration has proposed . given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or to kowtow to its own torturers to justice in us courts ) , such a role for the us would be vulnerable to an international and domestic political assault . at the same time , apparently , they would work in close collaboration with ugandan forces .
one poll found that 19 % of americans think their incomes put them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope to reach the top 1 % someday . part of the reason not to do so is that a majority of americans fail to recognize what should be done . so , why are n’t americans feeling more alarm at their country ’s mounting income inequality ? deep into the heart of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves , not the state ; that people can cross the oceans and mountains to make for themselves better lives ; and that those who succeed as a matter of course not through luck and corruption . these are not the beliefs that are conducive to social democracy .
the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to protecting the planet ’s biosphere and providing energy for all . if we set our mind , we could be the first in human history to abandon our children nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no loss of poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course that world leaders set when they met at the un in new york city to adopt the goals of sustainable development ( sdgs ) . stockholm , our generation , has a unique opportunity to do so . they have emerged from the largest summit in the un ’s history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the un ’s largest consultation on sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) .
the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , has become the object of conspiracy theories and the target of intense harassment after he is present at two weeks of terrorist attacks in each other . thus , noisiest is often rewarded with a megaphone , while less polarizing , less privileged voices are drowning out , even though they are furthering smart , nuanced perspectives that may actually enrich public debate . women and minorities are especially likely to fall victim to online harassment , but anyone may be targeted . if the ai algorithm fails to do the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hateful , and threatening speech at whomever they choose . the victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , as well as many , with their sense of safety and even self-worth eroded , remove from social media completely .
i single out of america not because it is unique in its neglect , but because it is unique in its leadership capacity . africans do not vote ; they do not buy us goods ; they do not threaten violence . few rich countries are doing better than americans do . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden . africans do n’t vote ; they wo n’t buy us products ; they do n’t threaten violence .
this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and insecurity . on the question of what caused the crash , the debate is much more even more . in my view , keynes ’s major contributions to economic theory were intended to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness of the foundation of the knowledge upon which our prospective yield estimates have to be made . ” hence , as he put it in 1932 , there may be “ no escape from prolonged , perhaps interminable depression , ” except through direct state interventions to encourage and subsidize new investment . krugman is hamstrung by the fact that he attributes a crash to “ “ irrationality ” ” ” ” ” ” ” which , as cochrane points out , is no theory .
the moral imperative is incontrovertible , because the effects of climate change – including extreme weather events , temperature changes , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who have also benefited the least from the economic activities that cause it . sometimes , however , moral rectitude and economic interest merge , presents an opportunity that must not be missed . indeed , their choices sometimes seem to be mutually exclusive , making decisions that are made to take exceedingly demanding into action . that is the case – from the perspectives of this archbishop and a former finance minister – with the world responding to climate change . cape town , nowadays , has all too often been forced to choose between doing whatever is morally right and doing whatever is economically beneficial .
hallyday was the child of a generation watching the american gis entering paris , which was invented for itself the american ascendance . he was the consummate performer of the french scene , the chameleon beamed out on satellite television , dripping up with fake sweat and real glitz , an artist who , like the novelist , confessed his trip to lie . and then came the ’60s rocker with the eye of the sad wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher in the rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that he apparently condemned to live on the fringes of each form of excess . abiding in each of us was the johnny that moved us all : the youth spent going act , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; the father , a character out of modiano who , between bouts of drinking , pawned the gifts given to his abandoned son . and , on that day , he lamented that his absence seemed like part of a show , somehow making us to forget that he was no longer with the us .
moreover , post-wwii decades of capitalism have maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . the keys to that era of growth and happiness were strong social-welfare systems , and especially keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in all of the world ’s large states . job insecurity back then was mostly unknown , and mass poverty disappeared . to be sure , it was subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to financial crises of the type we see regularly today . moreover , post-wwii capitalism has maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan .
in responding to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would be no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity . we are both interested and allied , but not absorbed by the eu itself . that appears to reflect a stance – expressed by cameron and former uk chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – that helped set the stage for brexit . solidarity ( at least the kind of cost money ) stopped at the english channel .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and on other governments in the future – to reassure and account for protesters ’ safety . in this crisis , an american president should form a united front with human rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow , sustain , and encourage those iranians who have been or may yet be apprehended , or worse . natan sharansky has declared that this tactic – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – the west claims that america “ can stands with ” those who advocate for free assembly . natan sharansky has said that this tactic – the west tracing and demanding accountability to treat individual inner dissenters – has helped to fragment the soviet union . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who support a free assembly .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved ties with the outside world . closer ties between russia and the european union make sense for similar reasons . russia should be treated as a major power , which implies consultations on important global issues . there should also be some understanding for what the russian and russians have walked over the last two decades . closer ties between russia and europe make sense for similar reasons .
the most important is not always the rule of law upon which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a company that fails , or a polity to implode . whatever the case , for key brazilian leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become a part of the solution , not a fundamental problem . the consensus may have reflected the successes of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative achievement of privatization and liberal market economies worldwide , as well as brazil ’s middle-class growth . but a consensus has emerged in brazil that a left party can neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s ’s presidency has failed to challenge that view . in fact , investors are taking all kinds of risks .
one big loser in this world will be freight ventures ( alongside junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenues – and not only apple ’s . products wo n’t have to be made in these factories , and then shipped out to customers or inventory centers . when things could be made , applied , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation decreases dramatically . recycled materials may not be delivered to centralized processing centers , and then passed over to factories .
london – in the 1960 ’s , the green revolution – which featured developments in high-yielding crop varieties – the expansion of irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers bolstered agricultural production worldwide . achieving food security means guaranteeing that all people have consistent , affordable access to proper nutrients , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and rising resource-intensive prevalence of resource-intensive diets that accompany rising incomes . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , especially in developing countries , affecting the majority of crop shortages and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to surpass nine billion , according to the international monetary fund . surmounting these challenges will not be easy .
turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence felt globally . indeed , for many years , erdoğan ’s domestic critics have been denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ( “ i say ) . to be sure , turkey needs europe as much as europe needs turkey . but the historical course may change fast . europe is to turkey ’s “ a principle of moderation ” and the enticement to remain democratic .
on the contrary , experience indicates that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats , until they arrive at a point of crisis . that amounts to more than 0.5 % of annual gdp of about $ 718 billion annually . yet government spending on cancer averages around $ 4 trillion a year . more people have been dying from cervical cancer in the americas during the past year than they have been in combat . indeed , last year alone , ’s 580,000 cancer deaths exceed roughly 430,000 combat deaths , on average , in world war ii , the korean war , vietnam , and the gulf war .
so far , the us is no closer than it was in the aftermath of an assault to answering that question , because the us can not find its nerve to request it . a journalist visiting saudi arabia ’s kingdom recently asked me why five out of the six students he interviewed at king saud university still believe that al qaida was not responsible for attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon in america last year ? i had used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what occurred on that dark day . dealing with that question is increasingly frustrating for me , for i was running out of plausible explanations . i had used to believe that we would have the courage to transcend our perceived humiliation and begin to look deep into our national psyche , asking the big question , “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a manner ? ”
whereas tunisia was an extreme case in the case of a regime furthering a small clique ’s economic interests , the pattern was widespread . top incomes in these countries came largely from political patronage rather than innovation and hard work . moreover , income inequality widened , with a worldwide phenomenon of rising wealth concentration at the top of a familiar pattern in many arab countries . this is why knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” ” prescription of more liberalization and privatization is inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . clearly , there is a clear political necessity for a growth strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece rather than an afterthought .
germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , implying that it is acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by major trade partners . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are not only about trade , but about america ’s departure from the pax americana itself . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950s . but that is no longer the case , either . few countries join a postwar order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to a rules-based trading system .
during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on boosting france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year and bringing unemployment down to less than 6 % . with inequality also rising , many french are rightly angry about the need to tax labor costs far beyond capital gains . a clear way to achieve both goals would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to the hidden cost . france has some of the highest labor costs for eu hourly employees , and a natural effect is tepid .
in early december , putin signed a federal budget that foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and budget deficits amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , coupled with the tough economic sanctions imposed by the us and europe , meant that by the end of the month , his government predicted a 4 % - of-gdp decline in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , and that after budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , one estimate is that , by the end of this year , russia will spend 70 % of gdp on reserves and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp . nonetheless , putin ’s approval ratings remain at around 80 % . if low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions persist , russia will run out of cash until late in 2016 .
as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to send money to be just as easy as to send a text message . ” given that libra will take the form of private money tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would this work in practice ? but , of course , libra is selling itself as much more than it does . if argentina ’s people could shift from pesos to a single-touch basket of stable currencies , would n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first sign of trouble in the domestic economy ? the standard “ efficient-” analysis does n’t help us answer that question , because in perfect markets such flows would be self-correcting .
should bush , bernanke , or the new us treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in america ’s financial assets at a time when a rising europe will help shield europe ’s interest rates from their effects . during april , the rise of inflationary expectations and europe ’s ’s appreciation occurred more or less concurrently . the recently rising euro also helped to keep down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorated somewhat in the euro-zone . this is a big plus for sustaining an economic revival . yields on a ten-year german bond that may have been expected to stay higher because of deteriorating inflationary expectations during this period .
the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to revoke the 1707 act of union , with the future set to form a scottish referendum in 2014 . this political entity is an accurate counterpart in the political world to a well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring or fissuring . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful range of small and medium-size political units . of the six larger eu member states , only france has a truly centralized well-defined political system of political system . when stressed , a large surface surface bifurcates in large chunks , but then disintegration persists into smaller and smaller fragments .
money , therefore , is a matter of trust , without which no society can function . we believe in banknotes , because we collectively decide to trust a government when it says that 100 , not ten , or 50 . we do not grow up wishing to work for crooks and liars . just when we follow our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trust their judgments , we entrust our careers and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs and goldman sachs and other such banks because we believe that their leaders will be fair to their workers and clients , and honorable in their business practices . we do not grow up wishing for crooks and liars .
he has created an environment in which demands for radical change has led to compromise rather than rage – in sharp contrast to , say , yugoslavia ’s violent break-up . ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not have been saved ; but , thanks to much of gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . like franco and sanders , gorbachev has been an implausible reformer . likewise , far from fitting the mold of a democratic machine , sanders is working to pull the party back into the social-democratic left , where it belongs . notwithstanding the rise to power with the kgb ’s support , he has not given up his thinking processes to that machine , in how president vladimir putin clearly possesses .
that leaves developing countries facing a stark choice : will they be better off accepting the crumbs on offer to them ? whatever economics , taking this route may become harder today than ever : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that accept what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . america ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . unsurprisingly , rich countries ’ negotiators throw around large numbers when it describes gains from even an imperfect deal . those in the developing world who believe that there has been bargaining history in bad faith have a powerful case .
four years ago , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) , the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva on the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) , announced last may that the celebrated discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson was actually the higgs boson . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete , with the sole exception of one important : black holes . the latter-day nostradamuses have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , about high energy particle physics . these prophets have been obviously neither the first nor the last part of their species . four years ago , the doomsayers predicted that the lhc would produce the micro-scopic black holes that would swallow the earth in a matter of months .
today , as developed countries ’ central bankers fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to react to widespread anxiety about slowing growth and a return to high inflation . during the era of democratization in the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments tried to tame hyperinflation , which peaked at 2,477 % in 1993 and 1998 . the introduction of the “ true plan , ” ” ” ” launched in 1994 , managed to constrain annual price growth to a “ acceptable ” 22 % by the end of the year . monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . riding on the plan ’s success plan , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , italy ’s former economy minister , has been twice elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter anxiety about price stability .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was grim . against the backdrop of the subprime crisis , catastrophes at a number of financial institutions , and weakening the stock market , those universe masters seemed less omniscient than they did a brief time ago . those who think that globalization , technology , and a market economy will solve the world ’s problems seem subdued . and it was not only the bankers who were at the university of davos doghouse this year ; so did their regulators , for example , – the central bankers . most of the world ’s chastened to be the bankers , for the first time .
this holds down interest rates on that debt in the short run , but creates even bigger potential losses in the event of a potential default . now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in europe ’s periphery , government defaults threaten to drag down the very big banks . the european central bank has injected large quantities of its emergency loans into the banks , which they are using to purchase even more government debt . diamond has discovered that , ultimately , trump ’s bankers – at least in the uk – are at least in the us . banks and politics are deeply intertwined in every advanced economy .
even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure investment since the 1980 ’s has become an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiencies in existing production systems . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . this could be addressed by fine-tuning the division of labor in infrastructure investment and public - and private-sector governance , with crowding out the latter ’s goal . despite low average growth rates , disposable income grew by more than 6 % annually in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social-welfare policies .
iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the rest of the world . according to the latest data that runs through july or august for most countries , there are only 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line in the figure ) . in the period following the arab spring ’s oil shocks until the early 1980s , almost two-thirds of countries recorded inflation rates above 10 % . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( the green line ) is higher in 2015 than that of countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of gdp ) . moreover , iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the rest .
for the most part , the quick fixes they have imposed so far have not been very successful . for the most part , the quick fixes they imposed so far have not been very successful . on the european continent , this has been happening in the course of the 1970s . overcrowded classes in often insufficient physical surroundings have led to ever longer periods of study , degradation of quantity , and much unhappiness among students and professors . in the us , there is an alternative .
two million kosovars have suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every respect of his life , from his essential security to his educational system . only the war ’s bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . for years , they have sought to express their grievances through peaceful means . as a political activist in the last days of yugoslavia , i attempted to build upon the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . the need of kosovo to free itself from milosevic ’s grip on power has been so evident over the entire decade .
at the same time , efforts at nation-building along secular lines were reflected in egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party , resulting in the establishment of the united arab republic , the union between egypt and syria , which had lasted from 1958 to 1961 . the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , established in 1928 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world stemmed from neither political tendencies , instead reflecting widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thus blurring the path for what will become the most secular , and fairest elections in any of the region ’s arab country . but , with syria ’s participation in a brutal civil war claiming more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt ’s return to military rule and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia has been its sole achievement .
berlin – how we eat in the industrialized world is unsound , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , about 300 million tons of meat are produced annually , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that annual gdp will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at its current pace . such large amounts of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale and at a high level of social , political , and ecological cost . and now the us export-driven industrial model of meat production is exporting to the global south – particularly india and china – where meat consumption is soaring among these countries ’ emerging middle class . far too much of the meat that we consume comes from questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions .
cambridge – for some time now , america ’s four horsemen of macroeconomic policymaking have been taxation , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . having studied firsthand , i have found tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . the fourth area exists only in the era of rhetoric : an infrastructure program is currently not a part of a macroeconomic policy repertoire . the third area is highly consequential , one reason why today ’s trade tensions are so disconcerting . although i considered the latter area in fewer detail , the evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , only a minor contributor to growth .
chinese policymakers ’ ’ ’ ’ new emphasis on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk . but there will come a time when this tailwind subsides and china begins to converge on the advanced economies ’ so-called “ frontier . ” at that point , china will face the same productivity challenges confronting america and others . as gordon notes , a long-run productivity dividend associated with urbanization is underway – a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle .
but the plan has been projected to depress economic activity even further , and has failed to lay the proper foundations for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would need . on the contrary , the oversight board has recently certified a new fiscal plan and deal with the holders of bonds issued by puerto rican urgent interest fund companies ( cofina ) , which may have placed the island in a debt straitjacket indefinitely . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , underpinned by an unrealistic commonwealth ’s assessments of economic conditions . sadly , the window of opportunity for right puerto rico ’s fiscal boat has not been seized . at $ 17.8 billion , the stock of cofina bonds ( backed by future sales-tax receipts ) accounts for more than a third of the country ’s overall debt in a new fiscal plan .
new york – ten years on , what impact have the principles to have on displaced people ’s lives ? we have raised awareness of the displaced ’s plight , brought about changes in government policies and raised billions of dollars to reflect on their basic needs . the achievements are notable if insufficient . humanitarian efforts continue to be strengthened , including through a new rapid financing mechanism , the un ’s central emergency response fund . this has helped to save countless lives .
“ the man who dies the rich , ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies are disgraced . ” wearing a watch that costs 200 times more than one that does a better job of keeping time says something else , even after it is worn out by people who are not governing a relatively poor country . in essence , such a person says ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant , ” or simply plain selfish . andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen ’s era , has been blunt in his moral judgments . we can tailor that judgment to a person or woman wearing a $ 30,000 watch or purchasing similar luxury goods , like a $ 12,000 handbag .
on the contrary , parfit argued , desires can be irrational . in this monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the idea – almost universally assumed by economists and by a number of philosophers from david hume onward – that the role of reason is telling us how to get what we want but not to tell us what to want . in this monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the idea – almost universally assumed by economists , and by a number of philosophers from david hume onward , that the role of reason is telling us how to get what we want but not to tell us what to want . but then , so does every other answer that has been proposed since parfit revived a problem , and other philosophers have started offering to offer their own solutions . it shows that both the “ overall ” and the average ” responses have paradoxical or counter-intuitive consequences .
there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , such as the zimbabwe friendship bench and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its representatives in davos . seeking mental health care should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high blood pressure , diabetes , or heart conditions . furthermore , we need to reduce exposure to mental health inequity , frequently ignored issues . this is often a problem in lower-income communities , where populations may be at greater risk of pathology and often face the highest barriers to receiving care , partly owing to the lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . by acknowledging the issues of mental health and wellness , we can make a difference in our homes , schools , and communities as well .
the american public understands this , even though its president does not . because of this , americans can not afford to take even a minutest of their ports ’ chances , the consequences of error are too staggering to contemplate . experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack on the grounds of a dubai takeover is small . but the damage inflicted by the attack might be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways in which terrorists might smuggle in america ’s possession of nuclear weapons . should the damage inflicted by a terrorist attack also be small .
first , revolutions in the arab world , and nato ’s ’s military interventions in libya have re-oriented the alliance ’s attention toward the middle east and northern africa . but the four political developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right . second , the international financial crisis will have immense implications for nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing american defense secretary robert gates revived the debate on transatlantic burden-sharing and intra-alliance solidarity . finally , nato ’s first summit to take place in 13 years in the united states takes place not only in an election year , but also as us president barack obama ’s ’s hometown .
we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes . can we really count on such farmers , many of them desperately poor ones , to assume a leadership role in addressing the twin challenges of food security and ecological sustainability ? yet smallholders can not be ignored when it comes to climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production , and provide as much as 80 % of food supplies in developing countries . collectively , they manage vast regions of our planet , including 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can they produce more food , while preserving the natural environment ?
the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 have intensified russia ’s isolation further , as has the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a spate of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright sanctions on food imports from the european union and the us . lifting such restrictions would not only give the us economy an immediate boost , but also boost long-term gdp growth . one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from making investment in more than 40 industries designated to be critical of the us government ’s national security . that prohibition , while advantages for industry insiders , has diminished russia ’s access to financial markets and , increasingly , to new technologies that follow financial flows .
during talks with eu leaders ahead of the referendum , british prime minister david cameron had acquired an opt-out clause in may as part of a decision to move toward ever-closer union . but the uk ’s support had a catch : britain ’s leaders , reluctant to accept the eu ’s ’s long-stated goal of “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – made no secret of their desire to use widening eu membership to help prevent the deepening of european integration . both cee countries ’ relations and the uk have always been rather fraught . in the 1990s , the uk had been a proponent of eu membership for cee countries , at a time when leaders in france and germany were still very hesitant about eu enlargement . should it dominate the referendum , convincing voters to remain , it would send a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe .
business majors should study economic and political history in order to avoid becoming blind determinists . business majors should study economic and political history in order to avoid becoming blind determinists . and law students should focus on the crossroads of big data and human rights in order to gain the insight that will be required to defend people from forces that can seek to turn individuals into disposable parts . economists need to learn from engineering students how it will be engineers to build future workforces . and future workers will need to focus on the crossroads of big data and human rights in order to gain the insight that will be required to defend people from forces that can no longer be taken for granted .
the top-down hierarchy is both autocratic and arbitrary ; lower levels have little collaborative input and no right of appeals . in my personal experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with both writers and manufacturers themselves . serious violations may result in either reprimands or dismissals . in my personal experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with both writers and manufacturers themselves . sporadic grievances and alerts above allow them to develop an intuitive sense of boundaries of acceptable content , thereby creating evidence that is free from offending material from the start .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s government has decided to expand the diet ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s current session for 95 days , until september 27 – making for the longest continuous session in the japanese parliament ’s postwar history . but the summit has shown that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines . for the last 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 have focused their attention on economic debates at such meetings , content to stay largely tacit as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hotspots and recommended action , or , more often than not , inaction . the reason is obvious : abe is determined to pass a package of us national security bills , which enables the country to play a greater role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s actions in the diet are coming on the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he broke with the japanese tradition .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put its enlargement at bay until the russian and american presidential elections passed . that visit yielded yet another appeal not to rushing nato enlargement . in germany ’s parliament , german chancellor angela merkel announced that yeltsin would “ renege on the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … and i have been able to reach an agreement with president bill clinton , president chirac , and prime minister tony blair that the us will now refrain firmly from dealing decisively with the important matter of nato-russia enlargement in a certain framework that moscow does not feel the creation of fiat acpli . ” in february 1996 , kohl urged nato to introduce enlargement into the eu so long as the russian and american presidential elections passed . he instructed the ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , suggesting that talks are not left with nato machinery alone .
the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values , which range from a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and personal responsibility . but , as with any change of such magnitude , there are holdouts among holdouts . in this globalized world , without a utopia , individual freedom stands out as a share of the world ’s population . at the same time , such changes are triggering changes in human consciousness . only this , fogel , believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases .
eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . the stakes could not be higher . governments and international financial institutions scrambled to craft a solution within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . the governments and international financial institutions scrambled to put a solution in place within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . so far , many questions have been answered on design ; implementation would be at least as demanding .
the targeted killings by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico . the swiss federal ministry of public health has also overseen an experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependency for substantial periods . the swiss federal office of public health has also overseen an experiment in prescribing heroin to people who have lived with opiate dependency for substantial periods . health professionals took the lead in campaigning for the government – through direct democracy mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users to the public-health policies that are based on scientific evidence on what works . the swiss has implemented methadone schemes .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances such as artificial intelligence ( ai ) will have on the workings of our economies and labor markets has long been a hot topic . but jerry kaplan ’s recent book humans need not apply : a guide to fortunes and work in the age of artificial intelligence impressed upon me the true size of our socioeconomic stakes . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets is its ability to make enormous returns in high-speed trading , by being the micro second “ ahead of everyone else . ” another is its price-level capacity for price discrimination by new electronic market makers like uber , which is thus suited to each cent out of the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . soon , a new type of strengthened uber could emerge , integrate its cars , bus , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into one super-app .
some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping 4.5 billion – lack of managed sanitation safely , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . global health and conservation professionals need to collaborate more closely to identify these solutions – and persuade policymakers to follow through on them . in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating the required from a desirable approach . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available piped water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping 4.5 billion – safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution .
indeed , big companies in almost every field are vulnerable , as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and competent , like larger firms , reach customer pools specifically . this is unwelcome developments for software providers , whose business model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than electricity usage . moreover , disruptive technologies will cause value to shift across sectors of the economy , as has occurred when tv overtook radio , or , more recently , when online media acquired predominance over print publication . at the same time , firms in every sector now must invest to understand new technologies to be prepared to seize opportunities or to mount effective defenses quickly . indeed , big companies in almost every field are vulnerable , because startups become better equipped , more competitive , and capable – like larger firms – of reaching out to customers and users everywhere .
over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed almost two billion more people adequately – no small feat . though the developing world has had some 1.7 billion more people than it was in 1991 , 209 million fewer were starving . by 2013 , the share had fallen to 13.5 % . over the course of the last 22 years , the world ’s 193 governments will be able to come together to set new global targets to meet by 2030 . the task amounts to this generation , ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete goals .
ultimately , the reform act of 1832 rescinded the rotten boroughs and extended the franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . fifteen people have been killed , and many more wounded in what is now remembered as the peterson massacre . the greed and corruption of this era have been satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : narrative today . given its recent recall of the violent french revolution , the british elite have reluctantly agreed on democratizing reform . the united states , too , went though a period of robin hood in the 1870 ’s – and 1880 ’s – to three liking .
while the defeated remain side waged an economic campaign centered on fears of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave side waged a culture war by stoking fears about immigration and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ” moderate leaders everywhere must now react not only to the economic discontent of the millions who are losing out , but also to cultural pessimism and dismissal of politicians as they are manifested in it only for themselves ” that bestow succinctly succinctly succinctly succinctly or to the populist nationalism promoted by trump ’s cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . what makes this much worse in britain is , however , a set of gross errors of political judgment during and after the 2016 referendum campaign . narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british malady : throughout the west , much of the public viewed globalization as leaderless , lacked the human face , and akin to an uncontrolled , runaway runaway train . what made things so much worse in britain is a series of gross errors of political judgment during and after the 2016 referendum campaign .
every firm and business associations must decide on the best strategies and tactics to pursue them in their countries . a new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws involving conflicts and duplications . a new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws involving conflicts and duplications . it has been successful , owing to strong public support for combating corruption . ande has proposed creating a new court by amending the constitution .
a year ago , everyone assembled in the streets of kyiv knew what the us stood up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , and that strip away state assets , at its will . in the evicting that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism was coming to an end . in so far as formal legal rights existed , no court could be counted on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their own interests as being challenged . how , then , did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ? instead , those who benefited from regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the property they stolen were inviolate .
another community nearby had the same program other except that micronutrient supplement was delivered without the protein . they stayed out of school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive exams in adulthood , and became more likely to be employed in higher-paid , skilled jobs . for children who received nonsolle , the risks of stunting fell by more than one-half . moreover , health workers visited mothers during pregnancy and provided free medical services . one community was delivered with continuous access to micronutrient and protein supplement , known as atole .
poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers enabled the communists to reclaim power . from day one , the grand coalition was riven by feuds . such squabbling , it seems , is the postcommunist malady . instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he abandoned the country , the coalition members blamed each other . ministers behaved like adversaries rather than partners .
though the us economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french enacted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone throwing . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike a french brexit , in it amounts to an on-foot act of gunfire oneself . the disparity between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest against macron ’s proposed fuel-tax hikes is animated not by utopia but by despair . whereas the british have resorted to the ballot box , the french have embraced a mix of barricades , marches , and stone throwing .
what strikes me most is that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts and the coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . she worries about early human-rights violations , particularly women ’s rights , that she worries will multiply . and she has little doubt that the west , in response to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , has avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . what strikes me most is that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts and the coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . it is she who feels that , in acting like it , she has been faithful to her most cherished values and beliefs .
over the past six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engaging with china , accepting a unilateralist strategy in the eu . though china ’s charm offensive is extremely recent , its contours are already clear . as the largest trade partner of numerous asian countries , china will offer appealing terms of trade to its asian neighbors , much as it has done with singapore has done . the most prominent feature here is trade ; it is the most important feature . facing escalating geopolitical competition with the us , china is scrambling to win friends in the region .
london – on january 1 , 2010 , i believe that the game will come soon for greeks . a speculator can “ “ short ” a government by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later at a lower price and pocketing the difference . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in anticipation of profit maximization when its value goes down . for example , on january 1 , 2010 , i believe to myself that the game will come soon for the greeks . i borrow at face value , compared to € 10 million for the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs to six months .
in response to such extortive practices , king abdullah ii decried the character assassination of online news media and demanded that the government establish a regulatory framework for this unruly new sector . indeed , the lack of constraints allowed for dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s diversified tribal composition mirrored newly established web sites , some formed with tacit support – and even funding – by security agencies or other official or political groups . in response to such extorted practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” by online news media , demanding that the government establish a regulatory framework to this unruly new sector . moreover , many people launched news web sites exclusively to financial gain .
dozens of innocent people have been killed , including one of the world ’s most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . other leaders have declared that the un should not abandon its mission . predictably , president bush has again stated his determination to wage war on terrorism . the poison of terrorism has now taken place to the un ’s humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its iraqi mission headquarters . yet the bombardment raises the political questions that demand answers .
now , russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . to bolster russia ’s political clout over georgia ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without harassing trouble asking its permission from georgian ’s democratically elected leaders , has begun to constructing a gas pipeline linking russia and south ossetia direct . though no break in gas supplies from tbilisi to south ossetia has occurred , this step is necessary for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration of this georgian region into russia ’s economic system . to the extent that most of the inhabitants of abkhazia and south ossetia have already been granted russia ’s citizenship , recognition of those two regions ’ sovereignty would clearly be fictitious , and indeed , an interim line on how to achieve their complete annexation of russia . but they are truly illegal occupiers , as russia ’s decision to grant russian passports to those regions attests .
so long as trump is good for business , they seem unconcerned that he is the single greatest threat to america ’s soul and values and its image and interests abroad . back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves in thinking that they could control their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s bizarre behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism . the sad truth is that many nowadays ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history to think and act as if interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . so long as trump is good for business , they seem untroubled that he is the single greatest threat to america ’s soul and values and its image and interests abroad .
even more worryingly , this would open the door to provisions outlawing the benign , low-risk data mining that drives online ads . online advertising allows eu citizens to access information , educational materials , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without ever pay for them directly , and the amounts being spent on it in europe are increasing fast . the eu ’s privacy crackdowns threaten to undermine all of this . the industrial ’s revenue has more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as europe ’s overall economy has stagnated . not only will it generate the governance burden via additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many european companies .
for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed their school because they lacked access to clean sanitary products . but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation were delivered to girls in eight schools , attendance yields an average of 17 % on average . today , bloody good period donates sanitary products , including pads and tampons , together with diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk naval centers for asylum-seekers each month . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must be broken to allow women and girls to acquire sanitary products they need at an affordable price .
for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike down the law , making the effort meaningless . but , for many revolutionaries , there have been other ways to sack a tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” has been a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly , step-by-step approach to breaking the impasse . for morsi , the dilemma has been that the constitutional court may have struck down the law , rendering the effort meaningless . he has already backed down twice : once in july 2012 , when he abandoned his effort , under the pressure of the armed forces ’ supreme council , to reinstate an elected parliament ; and once he attempted to remove a public prosecutor by making him ’s ambassador to the holy see .
moreover , it amounts to treachery america ’s longstanding commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that is discouraging competitive currency devaluation . in us foreign policy , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the revival of monroe doctrine – a nineteenth-century assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to keep its european competitors away from the us – in central and southern america in order to curb china ’s growing influence . likewise , the trump administration has unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear facilities to supply a nuclear bomb equivalent to those that have destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared south of the us border , where , as one mexican commentator pointed out , the monroe doctrine “ served ” to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to america .
at the same time , the governance architecture of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed to enhance their legitimacy in emerging markets . unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such measures will prove futile in managing capital flows . at the same time , such institutions will remain inefficient in confronting collective problems linked to macroeconomic-policy spillovers and providing insurance against crises . at the same time , they will need to revise the governance architecture of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund to enhance their legitimacy in emerging markets . policymakers in both the advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than attempting to treat signs by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls .
though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , america ’s leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , much less to implement effective countermeasures . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle class are largely a product of two factors : rapid white losses – and blue-collar jobs to automation and a shift in middle - and lower-value-added manufacturing jobs toward lower-labor-cost countries . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle class largely stem from two factors : rapid private-sector job losses – and blue-collar jobs to automation and a shift in middle - and lower-value-added employment toward lower-labor-cost countries . the latter pattern depressed income and wage growth not only in the tradable sector directly , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to spillover effects from displaced labor . a decline in labor ’s bargaining power and falling real minimum wage may have contributed to rising income polarization as well , even as these are likely secondary factors .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the upcoming leadership change at an institution , with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 , likely succeed mario draghi as president – – presents an important opportunity to heed that call . zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn – has reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue revision of its policy framework . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
one factor is vladimir putin ’s willingness and ability to demonstrate russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda . such scenarios , however , have been unimaginable until only recently . the goal of making the continent peaceful , whole , and free has largely been realized . for decades , europe has constituted the world ’s most prosperous , stable , and predictable region , a place where history seems to have all but ended . such scenarios , however , have been unimaginable only recently .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is only one of many planned infrastructure projects worldwide , which is officially considered environmentally sound , despite posing severe environmental risks . construction , for example , is almost total on rail lines through kenya ’s famous nairobi national park , despite public outrage over “ incomplete and inept ” environmental impact assessments .
in many ways , such measures have succeeded : monetary expansion has played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , central banks ’ capacity to affect the real economy has declined . after all , unlike other central banks , they must account for the preferences of 19 sovereign national governments , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination . today , and for the foreseeable future , domestic inflation is increasingly being globalized , rather than local , developments , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policies are far more influential than loose monetary policies . for the ecb , this generates a particularly severe challenge .
beijing is about 10 ° c hotter than nearby rural areas in the daytime and 5.5 ° c warmer at night . in august , temperatures across the 12.5 oc above the nearby countryside climbed to the 40oc – a scorched heat that affected not only the downtown area , but also cover some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the fastest-growing cities are in asia , with the world ’s fastest-growing cities . looking at a fast-rising urban city like houston , texas , we can see the real effect of the urban heat island . an even more dramatic increase in tokyo is being made .
a rising minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . and , as coworkers began to practice , enlightened employers came to view such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental well-being . some saw these changes happen , and worried about them . swedish president emmanuel macron was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – often conspicuous consumption . gyms , for his part , became new sources of community life .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared his intention to hold a referendum on his proposed quotas . some , such as the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to flee from europe , blocking the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states or limiting labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has turned out to be especially divisive . according to the european council on foreign relations , there are 32 referenda in 18 countries across the eu .
from the outset of his presidency , obama ’s ’s ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has been deficient . he says repeatedly that us exports are good for america : they create jobs . he needs to remind americans that imports are also good : he can surely ask his audience to think of jobs in ups cargo airplanes , freight trains , and trucks doing business with america ’s interior . but american exports are other peoples ’ import , which is why obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . the big problem , however , is that obama has been unable to confront , placing himself in the hands of others , america ’s labor unions ’ fear-fueled hostility toward trade .
the end of capitalism means simply the end of an urge to listen . this has inspired the american way of life , where the money has always become morally respectable . it has now been thought of as the healthily promethean to turn wealth into money , putting it to work to earn more money , because by doing that one benefits humanity . usury ( making money from money ) was an offense against god . it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable .
that pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments have also opted to imprison drug users . by driving users underground , criminalization is contributing to a deepening public-health crisis . addressing the drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand , but usage rates have failed to decline . instead of focusing on the treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to long-term rehabilitation centers located in the depths of the rural areas that had little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . poland , too , chooses to possession of even the smallest quantities of its drugs as criminal , as illustrated by the fact that 60 % condemned for drug possession in poland are marijuana smokers .
frankfurt , the european central bank is at the center of a large , riskless experiment . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments of performance no longer explainable through fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of such a policy are becoming increasingly apparent – and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . key benchmark interest rates have remained near zero for six years now . financial markets are being flooded with a run on liquidity , which has become increasingly important .
in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union , as well as many others to police major sea-lanes threatened by us pirates . the alliance has evolved into a true security-management organization that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . and , in countries worldwide , it performs tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising on how to draw military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to avoid harm to its children . the threats have shifted and become more global . the alliance has evolved into a true security-management organization that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective .
china ’s dependence on fossil fuels has left it in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders remain determined to climb . describing the shift to electric cars as a job-killer labor force , trump has advocated ending federal subsidies that encourage domestic development , manufacture , and purchases , such as the $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit of the us consumer . and , anticipating a eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are handing out generous grants to domestic manufactures . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock , by betting on the resuscitation of dying – and deadly – fossil-fuel industries . in order to foster sales , buyers are exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – $ 10,000 per vehicle ) .
the measure can also invite countries , like the united states , to retaliate with distortionary measures , making them somewhat perilous . but calculating a corresponding tax would be extremely difficult in practice . it would , for example , necessitate calculating the tax equivalent of a regulatory cap . provided that it is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global welfare and be compatible with the rules of the world trade organization . moreover , the tax would probably have regressive distributional effects , hurting the poor countries most .
ideally , such cooperation would take place within the eu as an institutional framework . european countries , along with others willing to join the euro in the future ( the euro-zone plus ” ) , might simply decide to use the legal means already available to enhance cooperation . moreover , article 138 would allow unified eurozone representation in the international monetary fund and the world bank . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to support their action.the scale of that provision , which says , “ “ “ “ “ “ “ [ the ] council of europe ” shall … adopt the measures specific to [ europe ’s ] member states , ” ” ” ” and that “ only [ s ] member states … participating in a vote ” is wide . the group might then extend cooperation to three additional policy areas : the eu .
and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , iceland ’s bishop , has warned that ban would effectively turn judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” because anyone practicing circumcision could be subject to six years in prison . for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center has countered that female circumcision is a segment of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to contravention [ ] religious freedom . complicating matters further , both sides are laying out their arguments for human rights . gunnarsdóttir accept that “ everybody has the right to believe in what they want , ” but she is insisting that , “ the rights of the children come above the right to believe . ” for example , some supporters of the ban have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that “ no one shall be subjected to torture , ” or savage , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment .
entanglement may change the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like a north korea that is weakly tied to the global economy . to be sure , going through any networked adversary and disrupting attacks poses a risk of escalation . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to their classic instruments of nuclear deterrence – punishment and denial – as they assess the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also pay attention to entanglement mechanisms and norms . “ persistent engagement ” may nonetheless encourage deterrence in such hard times .
here , the eu ’s summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and strengthening governance among the eurozone ’s member states . but more will be needed to restore financial stability , such as enlarging the european financial stability facility ’s total firepower . moreover , if the eu wants the eu to emerge stronger from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , without growth and higher employment , europe ’s problems can not be solved . affirming a more stringent and more rigorous stability pact is also imperative to achieve greater integration . here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and strengthening governance among euro-zone member states .
the financial stability board estimates that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to $ 67 trillion , with america accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone ’s $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom ’s worth of $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion – a broad range of three billion – from china ’s shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion . ultimately , it is financed with retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products ( soes ) , and private capital . in 2007 , the volume of shadow-banking transactions in the us exceeded that of conventional banking assets . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion .
there can be no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are several factors worth pondering : the rise of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the traditional use of force is mostly ineffectual ; increasingly blurred lines among difficult allies and rigid adversaries ; and major political frictions between a centrist us president and a congress party that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . clearly , the us can not do much to resolve the conflict . in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . but obama himself bears a large part of the blame . in 2011 , he asserted that only the two sides ’ willingness could ensure a successful outcome .
with wages in china now rising quickly , its labor-cost advantage is quickly diminishing . yet it may be tremendously good for any developing country that is promoting a fruitful rebalancing of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and that uses export-led growth proceeds to invest in infrastructure and skill levels . in the future , however , this kind of trade probably will become less important . as economists like mit ’s david autor have shown , the impact on this in developed countries can be both bad for some workers and good for companies ’ profits . china ’s ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without labor-cost trade initially fueled by labor-cost disparities .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging and what does a lower share of working-age people mean for a country ’s economic development ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china stem from the country ’s ’s ’s ’s total fertility rate ( tfr ) 1.8 – unchanged for 20 years . but population-survey data , published by the national bureau of statistics , suggest that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , with the united nations ’ just-published reporting , world fertility patterns in 2009 revises china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among the low-fertility countries . a prolonged period of low fertility implies a slowdown in china ’s ’s ’s ’s population . can – and should – do anything , especially for the country ’s “ one child ” policy .
the problem with these monetary-policy approaches is that , even though a special numerical target may be reasonable when it is set , successive unexpected developments often make the goal of remaining hard to live with . after the monetarist approach failed , some switch to targeting an inflation rate . until the currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . many then shifted to inflation targeting ; but they tend to miss such targets even more frequently than advanced countries do . until the currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone needs to develop sovereign insolvency practices as soon as possible , in order to prevent other sovereigns through debt mutualization . unless this wisdom is heeded , it will be impossible to hold europe together . in fact , the dangers that are now confronting europe in the wake of socializing debts are far greater than those posed by mere potential financial crises . if the european union ’s national governments want to help one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally offer humanitarian assistance , no conditionality , and no redemption . if you lend to a friend , it will no longer be a friend .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house and describe him as “ respected everywhere over europe . ” trump and his advisers have evidently learned much from orbán regarding racist immigration policies and ways to undermine democracy . trump , for his part , is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house , describing him as “ respected everywhere over europe . ” trump ’s republican party is using similar tactics .
at the same time , trump has purged some 17,000 public officials by firing america ’s state department employees , shutting down the us government , freeze out pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to open discussion of how to formulate and implement policy . at the same time , trump has purged some 17,000 public officials by firing america ’s state department employees , closing down the us government , freeze out pay , and creating an atmosphere of open debate about how to formulate and implement policy . trump is doing much the same , with an outcome that america ’s government is now losing some 94 % of its regulatory court cases . while orbán has applied economic pressure to compel trump to shut down hungarian opposition media coverage , trump has described the press as “ the enemy of the people ’s ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . making matters worse , orbán has wrecked hungary ’s autonomy over the rest of the country ’s civil service , as well .
to decide not to challenge these data , folta continues , and instead to “ publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , this does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right away from florida . ” folta offers the brilliant send-up of ayyadurai . but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article that data have been used and there is no validation of this model . instead , it implies that you have made a mistake , in your program , assumptions , or input data – all of which are testable . “ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast munich ’s location , ” and a program told that you were squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data and claims to millions of rather dry germans does not mean that you are brilliant .
in other words : europe faces a fundamental collective-action problem . the sum of its headline commitments was impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp . but , in the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state failed to consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . experience showed that only an acute crisis could compel europe ’s leaders to engage with a concerted effort . instead , they settled on a package of domestic measures to stabilize national banking systems one by one .
a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo prevailed . following the civil war pitting pakistan against the bengali freedom fighters of then-eastern pakistan fueled a wave of sunni refugees , india started supporting rebel groups there . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled kargil district . west pakistan was obliged to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state . the two sides fought back again in 1971 , despite kashmir ’s lack of focus .
with the emergence of hiv in the 1980 ’s , which compromises the immune system , tb re-emerged , and is the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals . moreover , the tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying the diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity . with the emergence of hiv in the 1980 ’s , which compromises the immune system , tb re-emerged , alongside the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals . roughly 15 million people suffer from co-infection of hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary causative agent in most tb cases . whereas pandemics appear suddenly , spread quickly , raising immense anxiety about an imminent threat , tb has since spread slowly but steadily over the tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities .
in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european constitution of defense , which may well mark the beginning of the end of the process of political unification . in 1954 , france rejected the national assembly ’s proposed european defense organization treaty . europe ’s strongest military power by far , france has thwarted every attempt to pool europe ’s armed forces . continued progress toward fiscal union would , ironically , make a political union increasingly unlikely for a single simple but important reason : france . the pitfalls of strengthening europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fiscal union further are not ending .
this will not be easy , not least because of another new operating burden embedded in many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ autonomy , and policy conflicts – all of which could leverage financial intermediaries ’ behavior by reassuring them to assume greater risk . central banks now need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility , regardless of whether they are legally mandated , to reduce financial vulnerability . the limits of inflation-targeting targeting are now clear . they know that their supervisor has powerful instruments at its disposal – for example , it can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting the banks ( at least for some time ) and holding strong interest in preserving its reputations .
if small , unproductive firms were shut down and bigger , more productive firms would hire their workers , total output , and well-being would surge . so , why is n’t this occurring routinely in developing countries ? according to standard economic reasoning , this is inefficient ; it is the right thing to do . if small , unproductive firms shut down , and bigger , more productive firms would hire their workers , total output , and well-being . according to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of large , productive firms .
lord zhu was china ’s jack welch , the tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric -- a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence on performance . as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has shifted its focus to president jiang zemin ’s successor . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation has been the appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . as china ’s new leadership team emerges , so did the world ’s attention to president jiang zemin ’s successor . even before he became premier , mr. zhu rongji as president of the china central bank – the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth – and the mastermind of his successful struggle against inflation .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , and their combined market capitalization has soared from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world ’s gdp ) in late 2009 , as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchanges . to some analysts , the emergence of countries such as brazil as economic powerhouses stems in part from the successful demutualization of their stock exchanges . but , partly because several african countries have escaped the hang-over since the global credit crisis , more investors are focused on business opportunities there . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the world ’s largest 11 african economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) .
establishing national , regional , and global standards is not easy ; it is absolutely necessary . but failure to devise mechanisms to enable migrants to exploit their capabilities creates even more damage . • accelerate eligibility for presidency rights and citizenship ;
what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative france . unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-fourth of the electorate . its old-french far center-right coalition and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive unannounced or defy expectations , as has occurred in america and the uk . fillon , for his part , may be able to muster the same degree of support , and may even be able to skim votes from le pen , given that some 8 % of primary voters have described themselves as a national front ’s national front ’s national front backers . heading into the electoral campaign , fillon may be running on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during the second-round debates , when he implied that he favors forming a european government .
for years , poles have ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority – ahead of the pope . kaczyński has repeatedly demonstrated his impulsiveness , a position that he faces . the state-owned media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s killing will only undermine pis . poles have been involved in poles ’ fundraising drives . he pursues power without contemplating the consequences of his acts .
in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of only about $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( a 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of only about $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( a 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost a worker who received it ? appalling wages are only the beginning ; they are the most likely to be . almost anywhere in the world , including in the united states , that cost may be shockingly high .
when xi first unveiled his slogan after being singled out by the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in a simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic perspective : the “ china people ’s dream ” has replaced the “ china model ” in official political branding . when xi first unveiled his slogan after being chosen by the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in a simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic perspective : the “ china people ’s dream ” has replaced the chinese model in official political branding . whatever the new administration is touted as part of its ambitious effort to ensure that the “ china dream ” is coming true . unfortunately , china ’s propagandists who are doubling down on censors have a perverse ability to discredit anything that they seek to brand . xi has said that little about the dream of a “ china dream ” has created significant trouble .
in reality , they can not , because humans ’ genetic experimentation is impossible . indeed , even many aspects of their behavior closely resembles that of the us itself . even in animals , whose genes are more readily studied and far better understood , such as drosophila , the minuscule fruit fly , there can be no simple one-to-one correspondence between a gene and a behavioral trait . fruit fly genes are startlingly similar to ours -- as it is to those of most other beings . instead , a wide variety of genes influence each characteristic .
environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating and corruption – is running rampant , with cash from opaque sources flowing to cambodia ’s casinos , banks , and the real-estate market . cambodia is currently bereft of its natural resources , including timber , rubber , and sanders , for private gain . gone are the days in which strong esg performance has been a well-run bonus for investors . pension trustees and fund managers now insist that companies where they invest in an ethical , transparent manner that curb reputational risk . emerging-market funds ’ investment decisions thus increasingly precede rigorous esg screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of passing .
while the british have been especially open about the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , other eu members have not been given less notice for their domestic interests . simply put , talk of “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s ’s economic and political fault lines , and there is no going back . in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests had been aligned . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-exchequer gordon brown , described brown as a pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered the practical benefits of peace and prosperity to britain . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through a common army failed in 1954 , highlighted that economic common ground was at the heart of european integration .
the us has found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary to help integrate in the united states . they view even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” ; and the dollar is “ weak ” in the us . in terms of fundamental values , there is such a thing as to the west . quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument to hold its own vis-à-vis the united states . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who trusted the enlightenment values and the us constitution of liberty .
in that case , tusk would most likely go back to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against pis would be the sanction kaczyński deserves . the majority of saryusz-wolski can realistically hope for is some government position in poland . he is only kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” in attempting to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat the pis faces . the majority of pis , for its part , may be hoping for is that some coalition of the country ( for example , those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose yet another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states will elect to avoid escalation of the conflict with poland . perhaps he will replace the widely criticized foreign minister witold waszczykowski .
renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . but this time , it is hard to see a way out that offers a second referendum . now , the eu is once again in the iranian stew . i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . so the problem lies with iran and it must resolve it .
other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises . even were the banks sound , the deleveraging process , and the associated loss of wealth means that , more often than not , the economy will remain weak . but experiences worldwide suggest that this is a risky outlook . the problems are not confined to the us , but not to the us . and a weak economy implies , more likely than not , bank losses .
nonetheless , even as it has expanded its capacity to provide military power to the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made it clear that it does not view itself as a military power . for now , germany ’s top foreign-policy priorities are likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which immediate security risks are most likely to emancipate them . they are also keen to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that account for the actions and possible contributions of non-state actors . german policymakers continue to believe that political and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . this would be a wise choice , at least for now .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity in the decades to come , they will need to find ways to avoid current economic activity from rising to already unsustainable levels of ecological debt . for this to happen , ecological resources must come to be viewed as valuable endowments to be managed wisely . to be sure , countries with ecological deficits can often fill a gap through global trade , as long as they are allowed to pay for essential imports . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its largest assets – a reason why more than 200 million tourists flock to the region every year to feed the region ’s economies . resource over-utilization , or even failure to manage them carefully , inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength .
ms. park once pledged to provide loans to working-class families from elementary school to university , while contending that local universities should be empowered to enjoy greater autonomy . she favors policy engagement and the six-party talks , so as to resolve the country ’s nuclear distress . but she must articulate convincingly with practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s ’s most severe problems , including high unemployment , deteriorating educational performance , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . come presidential election-day , south korean voters will elect a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue . park ’s success will ultimately depend on her campaign effectiveness in further defining her character along these lines .
up-front gradualism needs to be the name of the game . revenues will grow consistently only if the tax base – that is , the economy ’s – grows . revenues will continue to grow consistently only when the tax base – that is , the economy ’s – grows . and that growth requires higher levels of public investment in infrastructure and human capital . up-front gradualism needs to be the name of the game .
more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that severe fiscal consolidation will generate sufficient increases in private-sector confidence that spending gains by households and firms more than offset lower spending by governments . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will discourage american economic growth . america ’s major trading partners want the us to grow and buy more of its exports . the oecd , by contrast , is not at all the caucasus ’s governments ’ capacity to consolidate too much growth in a sluggish global recovery . second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s “ peer review process , ” has suggested that the united states has slashed its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than planned , on average , over $ 400 billion a year .
but it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with reference to and , in the language of , lay humanism . for most people , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; it was , rather , a daily immersion in lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . i admit that i view the legacy of communism with greater skepticism . indeed , totalitarian pressure shaped exceptional people , such as john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom religious faith had bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . this is why postcommunist societies demonstrate no nobility or disinterested nobility or disinterested with the west .
when the united nations asked nearly ten million people worldwide to list its priorities , it emphasized better education and health care , fewer corruption , more jobs , and more affordable food . at the same time , the world bank ’s climate focus comes at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . under kim , the bank rolled out the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are always harmful , coal needs to be forbidden , and “ climate aid ” is a solution . global warming has emerged from just 16 issues , including the us . evidence makes it clear that direct policies are far more effective .
the world ’s co2 emissions from power and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , whereas america ’s emissions were almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for about 320 million ) . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( as well as sneers at name ) . he complains that the us has already allocated more than $ 1 billion to none of the american people , and a world of $ 1 billion worth of contributions to $ 3.08 per american . consider the most recent figures for the international energy agency ’s 2014 report on energy statistics . trump carries on about the paris accord ’s supposed bias toward india , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth america ’s level .
as one wag put it , “ we have met with the un and it is us ! ” what hard power the un must be accused and borrowed from its member states . true , un secretary general ban ki moon may make speeches , convening meetings and proposing actions , but his role is more secretary general . and when they can not agree on a course of action , it is hard for the organization to operate . what hard power the un has to be accused and borrowed from its member states .
perhaps for that reason , there has been talk of a meeting in astana between russian and france ’s presidents , american foreign secretary of state and armenia ’s presidents and azerbaijan . there is every reason why no such meeting was hosted in the 20 years of conflict . otherwise , it will seem that no amount of negotiation can help set caucasus straight – powerfully undermining a key restraint that is preventing both sides from trying again to achieve a military solution . a meeting of us presidents , after all , is the ultimate negotiating forum , and it must lead to a real , sustainable level of success . that prospect holds both great opportunity and grave risks .
true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party , illegally established constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but venezuela is not merely a political problem ; it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions . if the issue were simply a matter of gross violations by the organization of american states ’ democratic charter – convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro – solutions measured in months or years could be contemplated . but the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the health-care system has collapsed , and violence and contagious ills are now practically out of control . governments in both americas and europe are finding themselves in rough , uncharted waters .
western bengal ’s chief minister mamata banerjee runs a popular and widely read web site that traditional media outlets mine daily . likewise , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts with twitter , with his much older rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot , and oommen chandy , respectively , have opened facebook accounts just like it did . but the pace at which the political world is embracing social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . a day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced his intention to open facebook to receive facebook ’s account , responding to public-’s questions . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale adoption of twitter , modi ’s allies are listing the party ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized supporters – prominent indian politicians from any party – have leapt in .
but in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , poor and developing countries need to let some means be allowed to preserve their new industries . so the world needs , within its regions , to facilitate integration based on shared economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared rule of law , and much of all co-exist to set the rules of the game according to the region ’s entire sphere of interests . so long as a country remains subordinated to an uncontrollable power of globalization , its future is at stake in foreign hands . linked to this is the simple fact that nowadays , economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration that can serve to avoid the adverse effects of such financial speculations boosted by globalization . so long as a country is subordinated to an uncontrollable power of globalization , its future lies in foreign hands .
is it fair to expect that egyptians will continue to pay for their past repression and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his kgb cronies ? because that money has clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not be mubarak , rather than his victims , who have been held accountable ? a prudent lender of last resort was supposed to weigh these facts before making the loans . the kind of regime mubarak was running out of power for many years . when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted with arms paid for their borrowed money .
one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that western germany would predict the default of its experiment before embarking on it . even that is a dream since , in the face of high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially each year relative to western germany . thus , claims of alternative strategy must be set at a somewhat lower level – say , an initial exchange rate that might decide to make east germany a low-wage country . at a more depreciated conversion rate , the us would simply face a steeper wage rate . perhaps those are en vogue in korea as it thinks of possible reunification , but even there would be hard to accomplish when the time comes .
and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is no safer . china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursuing incremental fiscal and monetary stimulus . meanwhile , public investment is high enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is no safer . new service-sector businesses – 3.6 million of whom were initiated only last year – are generating incremental employment , owing partly to a new streamlined licensing framework .
it would have been unimaginable for nato heads of state to follow through on their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june , when poland remains mired in its constitutional crisis , with its government disregarding the rule of law and the view of a discredited international body . the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market . but it also needs the eu itself to develop a more comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law within the union . hungarians and poles must remember that russian president vladimir putin is actively attempting to divide and weaken the eu and nato . if europe is to face aggression from the kremlin , it is crucial that poland and hungary abide by these groups of ’ fundamental values and principles .
the overwhelming majority of those researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for inclusion in climate-policy debates , also encourage much stronger action to reduce emissions . but that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suspend research on solar geoengineering . many worry , with good reason , that fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering in order to oppose emissions cuts . but most researchers are not driven by such interests , either . still , the overwhelming majority of researchers researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for inclusion in climate-policy debates , will ultimately use discussion of geoengineering to fight limits on emissions .
instead , america has succumbed to the temptation of unilateralism . it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war antagonist , the soviet union , with its precipitous disappearance 15 years earlier this month , has left its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of unilateralism . to achieve this , america would need to subordinate its power to the goal of shaping a new order , much as it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 . national greatness toward a world power invariably arises from its power to shape the world . if a great power forgets this , or they lose the capacity to act accordingly , it begins to decline .
that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to support the national agendas of both development and diversification . for their part , the industrialized economies must do more to support african oil industries and ensure that the negative effects of oil production are mitigated . working with other stakeholders , campaigners for a sustainable and just transition are likely to achieve something more : allowing carbon power to have a positive effect on economies that have so far experienced only the negative impact of twentieth-century oil-backed development . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and a conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum corporation , will engage with barkindo , along with numerous african energy ministers and civil-society leaders , present an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry needs to get on board .
the 1967 war placed all compulsory palestine ( as with sinai and the golan ) under israeli military occupation . economic development in the gaza strip was constrained under egyptian rule , and the region suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing the fighting in the southern part of mandatory palestine that would later become israel ’s . the palestinians ’ access to egypt was limited , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor depended on the un relief works administration that built and maintained local refugee camps . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s inhabitants comprised refugees living in difficult conditions in scores of refugee camps and relied largely on work in israel . yet , though one-third of the west bank has been closed to palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its predominantly rural population are refugees , many indigenous their land , and a wide range of jobs are available .
after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him tenaciously , because “ i propose to write that history . ” now , a decade later , the three have co-authored what might be described as the version of 2.1 of an episode ’s history . when the financial crisis erupted , the same thinking may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , chairman of the federal reserve bank of england , and new york fed chairman respectively . the second suggestion of history is often written by key people themselves . all three of the published drawn-out memoirs explain why they did , and did not , do what they did and did not do – inevitably with a degree of self-justification in each case .
for example , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms in the 1980s were spurred in part by growth in the non-agricultural sector , a result of policies aimed at stimulating townships and village enterprises ( soes ) . likewise , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the result of state-owned enterprises ’ chronic loss-making and over-asset investments – by respectively , by undertaking institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby offsetting the soes ’ diminishing returns on capital . in this sense , east asian ’s economies embraced a process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby the economic structure was continually revolutionized from within . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even incentivizing – old , inefficient growth sources with new , more dynamic ones , they expedited that process . the goal was not to address the problems that they faced directly , but rather to induce new , more efficient activities to help turn debt into assets and maximize the economy ’s capacity .
brussels – as the protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and discussion of kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustices of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation have barely stirred by an asean interest flicker , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential elections and a referendum on the united nations ’ membership . similarly , much of the world is protesting in the name of tibet , owing to countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . this seeming double standard may be explained in part by a sense of guilt : the west , for the most part , has embraced kosovo ’s independence in an attempt to assuage its own culpability for not suspending slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing . that neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove dangerous . taiwan , by contrast , has not seized our attention because it is stable and prosperous economically .
during my 17-month experience as minister , i have become convinced that spads of excessive power – and haughty – are undermining the uk ’s excellent civil service , as well as its elected and appointed ministers . whatever the option , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : a reduction in the power bestowed in the uk on non-elected special counsel or spads who have become dominant figures in all government departments . may ’s two leading spads , fiona hill , and nick timothy , took this danger to alarming levels . many are now eagerly signaling whether the uk should look again at the “ norway model ” of relations with the eu or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market .
setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production . while attempting to curtail the development of nanomaterial-inspired technologies would be as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , responsible for the evolution of such technologies demands vigilance and social commitment . indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials today are well known for the current risks to human health . it would be naïve to imagine that nanotechnology will evolve without risks to our own health and the environment . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production .
the unregulated online world is thus fertile ground for reaping enormous gains from child sex trafficking . with rapid growth in digital platforms threatening to compel child sex trafficking to become even more lucrative , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to counter this appalling crime . today , almost 4.5 billion people have access to the internet , and around one in three internet users are under the age of 18 . the unregulated online world is thus fertile ground for reaping enormous gains from child sex trafficking . globally , human trafficking generates an average annual earnings of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced sexual exploitation .
and it should not come as a surprise that markets have tested europe ’s political leaders ’ willingness to stay silent where monetary affairs are in concern . the recent interventions and support from america and japan have shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets are confident about its own success . all of us are expecting them to do so ; so , too , are the us and europe . europe has experienced a hard but promising start . it should come as no surprise that the euro started to slide toward the us dollar by considering the divergence in economic performance between america and europe .
what should now be clear is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given . people have learned that they pay for their purchases of dips , and they are not weaned on habit until they cease to pay . but this view is as much a half-truism as a prior idea that a boom would last forever , because the internet economy was shaped by new fundamentals . indeed , the internet /boombust cycle yields a question of prevailing economic theory about financial markets . now that internet fever have abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves .
the principle even applies to foods : large quantities of nutmeg , or licorice , are notoriously toxic . it is a rule that applies to the drugs used by patients worldwide with many billions of times per day per day . the risk that one ’s substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its inherent capacity to inflict harm and one ’s exposure to it . palo alto – since the evolution of the sixology of the sixteenth-century science , its guiding principle – has been that “ dosage ” makes its poison . the right dose of aspirin can be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much can be deadly .
the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( east ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( west ) . given libya ’s lack of a democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country that has sought to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identity . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully passed more complicated trials , offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan has not fully joined that revolution .
the bank of england has presented qe as a pure instruments of monetary policy that sustains economic growth in the face of needed and desirable fiscal consolidation . they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp over 3-4 years in every eurozone country , financed by very long-term public debt , all of which the ecb should buy . giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail too much stimulus . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also highlight a key question : how do quantitative easing stimulate the economy ?
never mind that eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan ’s budget plan are entirely implausible ; such projections matter politically , because , without them , the full sting of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would readily appear . and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has turned out to be much nastier . standard & poor ’s received some justified criticism for an analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s government debt ; after all , there was little economic news that could have explained the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessments of the political situation are on target : by inciting dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of the government , the tea party has shown its willingness to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy and to ensure substantially slower growth . confrontation and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics , even as america ’s government ’s ’s legal capacity to pay its debts reaches the line , owing to the tea party ’s ideological rigidities .
trump , for his part , has embraced xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . on trade , trump and xi have agreed on a 100-day plan for talks over how to reduce america ’s trade deficit with china . both seem to recognize that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable them to focus on their respective challenges . furthermore , the us has accepted china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating a us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security ; law enforcement and cybersecurity ; and social and cultural and cultural issues . an understanding between xi and trump has reflected a sober acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries face .
the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service to adult males . against this backdrop , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by improving relations between saudi arabia and iran , for example ) , though undoubtedly relevant , should not take priority over a strategy to address sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . and kuwait is contemplating following in jordan ’s footsteps by reintroducing conscription , which is already occurring in most sunni states ( and iran ) . that strategy needs to be at the center of federalism in the region . had federalism been introduced in somalia , for example , when a north-south rift emerged , it probably would not end up as a failed state .
the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds on a widespread yearning for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of the arabs , and the uncompromising mistrust of the “ world ” ” ” ” ” ” the so-called international community , with which jews share a centuries-old discourse . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fearing and complexes of a wide range of aggrieved voters , including russian migrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers . the left ’s failed attempt to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly political affairs ; they are the expression of the ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . israeli elections are in some ways a tribal affair ; people vote by virtue of memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . israeli elections are in some ways a tribal affair ; people vote by virtue of memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances .
but there can be little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their skills in order to seize the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . according to mgi ’s research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years as health care and education needs grow . moreover , among the new jobs that will emerge will be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . it remains far from clear how automation will affect women ’s job . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , benefiting individual women , communities , and societies , and the global economy .
with a couple of short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial rule lacked the support of orthodox evangelism . nevertheless , following loyalty , the government enacted a more pragmatic foreign policy . until the caucasus , the sedentary muslim elites interacted in an imperial aristocracy , just when in the twentieth century , national communist elites were absorbed into the soviet nomenclatura . russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural region , caucasus , and central asia , and brutally repressed any opposition . indeed , russia ’s links with the muslim world were going back to thousands of years , rooted in a tradition of tolerance .
the trigger was the proposed extradition law , which many feared would expand the mainland ’s reach to hong kong ’s judicial system . hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) . such a plan would have to do with at least two things . first , all parties ( including china ’s ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . the absence of any plan to bring together different protest groups and hong kong ’s government has become a source of growing concern .
wage insurance could offer workers whose pay has been cut after displacement compensation for up to two years , amounting to one-half of the difference between the old and the new minimum wage . the downside of such a focused approach is also straightforward : the margin of choice for eu members about how the egf funds are to be spent on their home countries would be minimal . to address this distortions head on , and provide clarity regarding how to allocate funds , the egf should target its scarce resources on two simple active labor-market schemes : wage insurance and mobility allowance . the very simplicity of this scheme will probably ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . wage insurance could offer workers whose pay has been cut after displacement compensation for up to two years , amounting to one-half of the gap between old and new wages .
but kharas ’s projections suggest that asia will account for about two-thirds of the world ’s ’s ’s middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not only the west , but even other emerging regions . to be sure , the rise of asia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s middle class is not the only change that we should expect . indeed , asia ’s ’s share has stood at 28 % ( following the example set by japan ) . this is the real business opportunity to do with it .
a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration , especially after the laborious drive made to hold together the monetary union and , with it , the european dream . nonetheless , the challenge posed by these new parties to europe could prove to be exceedingly disruptive . some , such as france , the national front , oppose their country ’s eurozone membership ; others , such as podemos in spain , do not . populist parties , both on the far right and on the far left , gain electoral traction . such an outcome would be even more disheartening , given the tragic terrorist attacks in paris and , after unity marches in france and throughout the continent , rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity .
taken together , all of these flaws cast serious doubt on the eu ’s claims to be at the forefront of the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . europe ’s governments reiterate the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but they seem to lack a comprehensive strategy for translating this into a coherent policy . european governments are repeating the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but they seem to lack a comprehensive strategy for translating this into a coherent policy . indeed , when europeans have come to mind reforming global governance , they restrict themselves to numbers of seats and voting weights on international entities . but , while deliberation is taking place on how much europe should retreat from its historic domination of multilateral entities , there is little vision beyond this .
during the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s ailing economy and currency . in december , lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the country ’s banks . but more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly interminable war on hyperinflation . são paulo , a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over brazil ’s impact on economic policies in the 1980s and 1990s , is nearing a conclusion . if the court approves the deal , a settlement would place billions of reals into the pockets of savers .
one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women are borrowing 13 % fewer money for farm-related activities than men do . such barriers have had a dramatic effect on social and economic progress . but this has not translated into greater scrutiny of finance . illiteracy , restricted land ownership , and agency restrictions all conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing . today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industries .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive legislation , including the criminalization of talaq-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” as a display of resoluteness .
thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could use $ 60 to purchase assets and the remainder to give firms marginal job-creation subsidies that might be particularly effective in economies with flexible labor markets that allow short-term hiring . this is very likely to aggravate the unemployment problem ; it certainly is not mitigating it . one solution is to channel a portion of liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little attention : they lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , causing relative decline in demand for labor . even if employment subsidies were offered only for , say , a year , firms would be tempted to use more labor in this time .
and it has a lot in common with nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on accountability and redress to the cartagena protocol – yet another anti-genetic-engineering screed that accomplishes little except to frighten potential entrepreneurs off from agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that the experience of the treaty countries that implemented was not especially positive unless those countries had abundant tolerance for the bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations . the seed treaty is being slashed from the same types of anti-capitalist , counter-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it also mirrors the flagrantly non-scientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol to a cbd . it is over-wrought , confusing , and complicated – in short , inimical to innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor .
when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did during the interwar period – the anti-international right moved toward fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . “ there is , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s globalization debates , “ a sure situation capitalistically disorganized economies in which greater culture is not victorious but rather losing itself in an existential struggle with lower cultures . ” for much of the post-1945 era , these divisions vanished as both right and left to fight battles for redistribution within national economies . at the center – beleaguered by anti-global reactions to both the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite saw products of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial . instead of a two-part split between the left and the far right , there was thus a triple dividing line , among anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists .
but the veil that exists over how the omnipotent party makes important decisions is being lifted somewhat , owing to the volume of unique material about the behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen square massacre of 1989 . as witness and participant in tiananmen events , and as someone with access to an historic archive , i have sensed that my duty to publish this track record of decisions that lay behind what has occurred . taken as a whole , these documents provide a rare glimpse into the modus operandi of china ’s leaders . the materials included in this book , which i brought out of china and determined to make public , consist of hundreds of papers , including minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the most senior members of the people ’s republic deliberated on how to manage the tienanmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; key speeches ; crucial telephone conversations between leaders ; and dispatches from the police and the military . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secret is proverbial .
and yet records have been smuggled into slovakia and other east european countries , where they have been treasured young rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel who would later become president of the eu . rock and roll have been viewed as a favorite form of capitalist decadence . a local rock band named plastic people of space , performing in english , was arrested at the end of the 1970s for the “ organized disturbance of peace . ” recordings by the rolling stones , together with other western groups , have been forbidden . in france , for example , slovakia , like other communist states , was dreary , repressive , joyce , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity have been stifled under the blanket of enforced conformism .
of course , there is an appealing logic to say that governments should have to rebalance their budgets just like the rest of the us ; sadly , this is not so simple . debt-ceiling absolutists grossly understate the massive adjustment costs of an autocratic “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . typically , governments have myriad ongoing spending commitments linked to basic services , such as national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention pensioners . no government can simply walk away from these responsibilities overnight . such costs are precisely why impecous countries like greece are facing massive social and economic displacement when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows abruptly dry .
president hosni mubarak of egypt claims that the shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan has coined the axiom of a rising “ shiite crescent . ” while this perception may be convincing at first glance , it is ultimately founded on the generalizations that reveal more about its advocates than actual realities on the ground . ironically , that perception is leading israel to some of its rather unlikely partners . this “ rise of shiite shiites , ” as well as the resulting sunni-shia divide , is alleged to be creating an ever widening chasm in the region . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for a lot of chaos .
companies can not continue to generate oil , gas , and internal combustion engines , while gradually shifting to cleaner technologies ; they need a clean break . as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still deliver about 85 % of primary energy by 2040 , down only slightly from 90 % today . making matters worse , the consultancy timber mackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . to finalize a shift away from fossil fuels will require drilling deals to the heart of the global economy . it wo n’t help that us financial institutions in china funneled at least $ 1 billion into coal-related projects in the first half of this year .
as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly costly for insurgents . furthermore , with american support , colombia ’s ’s ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to modernizing military installations and doctrine , increasing numbers of soldiers , and improving training . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict , with no endless debate over the theoretical or doctrinaire questions . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle at meetings in norway and cuba . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on its government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing the rebels to maintain their demands realistic .
the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact , as are doing business relationships with china and other major american partners . the us administration has imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines ; but those are small relative to the size of the us economy . yes , this is a volatile series of data , for it increases and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama has set the bar high during his two terms . most positive , one might say about trump ’s first year of economic policymaking , is that he has failed to deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade .
malaysia 's former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammad , has said that “ jews govern the world " by proxy . perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories have been passed on like it . but southeast asians are not immune to this brand of nonsense either . all of these books are variants of the protocols of the elders of zion , a russian forgery first published in 1903 , which japan arrived across after defeating the czar army in 1905 . the chinese have picked up many modern western notions from japan .
it needs not only closer economic ties , but closer political ties as well . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents are fond of bailouts , knowing full well that it is bailing out . they will have to answer for a strong european parliament , and they will have to give them a stake in the future . those running a powerful emergency funding mechanism will have to be strongly accountable . they will have to answer to a strong european parliament , and they will have to answer .
new york – striving to revitalize the world ’s economy , while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis , the question of knotty : are the statistics giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on heightened importance : what we measure affects what we do . if we have poor action , what we are trying to do ( say , increasing gdp ) may in fact help to exacerbate the standard of living . by contrast , a better measure of economic performance might show that steps taken to improve the environment are good for the economy . at the same time , we may be confronted with false choices , viewing the trade-offs between output and the environment that do not exist .
bangkok – a friend recently challenged a seemingly naïve question : “ what ’s money ? ” how do i know to believe that it is worth what it says it ’s worth ? we are taught in introductory economics that money is a medium of exchange . but why are we accepted that ? banknotes are just pieces of paper , with multiple attached .
when it was first created in 1985 , schengen area included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and western germany ) . eu membership since ballooned to include 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with four out of those left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and ecuador ) . to be sure , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic importance and appeal . but sometimes even sacred cows need to be slaughtered . with the refugee crisis turning schengen to threaten the eu ’s credibility as the collective entity and of its national governments to uphold order and the rule of law , this time is now .
he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . no doubt , putin is now likely to behave like a peacemaker . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick to their sphere of activity , and to abandon politics to it . but the problem will not go away .
though the world ’s attention nowadays is fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will create a opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( physically like metaphorically ) , and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . trump seems genuinely convinced that german cars in the streets of new york pose a threat to american national security . moreover , europe ’s ’s ’s external environment has become increasingly dangerous . should he drag on one morning , deciding to impose heavy import tariffs on european cars , things could get ugly , extremely quickly .
indeed , greater competitive pressures may increase the fragility of the banks ’ balance sheets and make investors more prone to panics . at the same time , they may erode the value of their institutions as well . there is a trade-off between competition and stability in the us . the result , then , will be far more incentives to assume risk premia . a lean peripheral bank and limited liability has little to lose and will tend to gamble – a trend aggravated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies .
vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , and have dramatically reduced child deaths and diseases linked to measles , diphtheria , and tetanus . most live in poor , remote communities that still lack access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a baby born in a low-income country to die before reaching an age of five . fortunately , the world is taking action . yet , sadly , a child continues to die every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia that can be avoided by a vaccine .
as the pioneering chilean psychologist jean piaget has pointed out , children at the early stages of the development process go through a phase of egocentrism : they are naturally focused on their own needs , and do not think of the rules . a child may snatch another child ’s toy , breaking it , and then denying having done so . rather than confess to breaking the rules , they lie in reconciling the inconsistency . to a child ’s mind , it is wrong ; the world is simply misinformed . and , because the child believes that everybody is operating under his specific definitions of both the right and the wrong ones , he can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently .
over the last five years , china has multiplied its highway system five-fold . it is this divergence , more than anything else that sets the two economies apart . what can india do to close the gap ? its greatest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is only astonishing . if your products can not reach the global economy , you can not conquer it .
there are two types of populists today : exploitative and enlightened . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public debate . but , because these politicians are so appealing to so many , they , no less than easily swayed voters , have to be scrutinized . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are giving willing rein to those who feel ignored . the question now is whether a brand of politics that threatens liberal democracy may be set back to preserve it .
the most recent feature that stands out during this period of historically sluggish productivity growth is weak demand . the crisis heightened uncertainty about the future course direction in consumer and investment demand . for example , mgi ’s survey conducted last year found that 47 % of firms will scale up their investment budgets , owing to increased demand or demand expectations . we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical for investment . across industries , slow demand recovery following the financial crisis has been a key factor holding back investment .
the french have no interest in recognizing that they have never been able to articulate a vision of a “ third way ” , ” ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets toward defense of “ higher ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , brushed since world war ii ’s quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to comprehend how markets operate . here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from the usual rules of market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets , and claims to offer a well-unbalanced middle ground . yet the facts have been buffeted by the hard truth . they look upon economics as an ideological battleground , where all views may be entertained without being confronted with logic , far less with facts .
avoiding this outcome will require american political leaders to constrain entitlement spending growth and bolster support for middle-income individuals . health care and welfare already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth of gdp in 1965 , and those outlays relative to gdp are projected to more than double by 2040 . while social security and medicare remain important to ensure retirement wellbeing , their roles must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that no one who has worked for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty , social security needs a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing fewer growth in benefits over time . avoiding this outcome will require america ’s political leaders to constrain entitlement spending growth and bolster support for middle-income individuals .
new york – president george w. bush rightly referred to pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections as a triumph of [ his ] people . ” but , even as he spoke these words , his administration worked behind the scenes to subvert the will of pakistan ’s people by trying to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and prop up elections as its greatest loser , president pervez musharraf . millions of pakistanis had delivered a clear message at the polls . bush plays a dangerous game , at risk of collapsing pakistan ’s political process for containing its own legacy . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists and , in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance .
it mutates quickly within an individual and between geographic locations , establishing latent reservoirs within a cell that enables it to emerge and replicate months or even years later . moreover , long-term treatment is not the same thing as a cure , and no public-health tool ( in addition to clean drinking water ) has ever matched the vaccine ’s preemptive power . three of the hiv-positive people still do not receive antiretroviral therapy . it evades a immune system , thus restricting the body ’s natural ability to fight or make it clear that it is limited . indeed , hiv is an exceedingly complicated virus ; it is a problem that must be found in the international community .
but it is helpful to remember that the university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and its social role since time immemorial , yet what in the past initially looked to many like “ conflict of interest ” often came to be viewed as confluence of purposes . according to this argument , academic researchers should either publicize their research openly , or abandon the university of university , before pursuing commercial interests . similarly , universities that employ them should abandon product development to existing companies . for example , during the late 19 th century , as america ’s universities started to place research at the heart of the academic mission , they were charged with forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . many professors argued that research requirements would render their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis , the european central bank ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s behavior has been conditioned on tension between what it can and how it is allowed to do . for 18 months , it has been purchasing government bonds worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) – – on secondary markets under its troubled securities market program . nonetheless , the ecb has provided large amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening the pressure on government-bond refinancing . the ecb is the only institution in the european union capable of providing unlimited financing to governments , but its governing statute has prohibits government bailouts . moreover , it has provided loans to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated demand from eurozone banks to € 489 billion .
after all , when the banks are unaware of their own balance sheets , they are not about to trust the rest of the world . america ’s economy was supercharged by excessive leveraging ; now , comes the painful deleveraging process . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , has caused credit markets to freeze . america would face these difficulties , even if it did not simultaneously confront the financial crisis . america ’s economy was supercharged by excessive leveraging ; now , it is set to turn into a painful deleveraging process .
recognizing these benefits , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda . for example , its government currently operates to encourage instruction in more local languages – more than 100 others – in myanmar – in rural areas . vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their educational systems within a generation . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee myung-bak have noted during our visit , teaching young people to think critically take time ; but outcomes can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge-based economy . one priority – to improve inclusivity – is already underway .
this highlights yet another reason for the failure of us economic policies since 2007 . instead , policies that intensify competition , either in business , labor markets , or domestic production may become socially destructive and politically explosive . but what if economists ’ compensation in theory assumes does not happen in practice ? what if market-fundamentalist politics explicitly prohibit income redistribution or regionally , industrial and educational subsidies that might compensate those suffering from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal .
madrid – economic globalization , combined with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has brought developing countries to the fore , with a growing number of firms within them , key global economic actors . but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china is now flowing not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to “ old one ” fdi-exporting states . such changes have heightened the complexity of an international investment regime and should broaden interest in developing a more effective investment-protection framework . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework to safeguard foreign investment . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment flowed to only a few sources : europe ’s traditionally affluent states , north america , and japan .
computers and the internet have made it possible to send information almost costlessly , and to do business across cultures and continents . the resulting changes will not be all but welcome economically . the worry now is that information technology is on the crosshairs of the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will suddenly take off at much higher speeds than before . the hockey stick curves are often cited in nature as well . worries about globalization and computer revolution ultimately boil down to the same point , because globalization is mostly the result of new information technologies .
copenhagen – amid a rising wave of anxiety over climate change , a growing number of countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and the european union – have passed laws in the 2000 ’s outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light light bulbs . the current attempt by republicans in america ’s national people ’s congress to roll back america ’s efforts to ban incandescent bulbs has revived this debate . but it ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to address global warming . many contend that the agenda is being spurred by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . the intent was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all forms of electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions .
the inter-american development bank , for example , report reports that trade gains from latin america ’s 33 small regional trade deals have been meager . this suggests that for the uk , mega-regional trade deals – which provide access to multiple markets , but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – are the best way forward . the key to boosting these gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and within markets . after all , it is precisely this approach , whereby uk firms should position themselves in well-developed , integrated supply chains , serving a much larger share of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu does to grant them access to the bilateral deal . this approach limits the gains from trade .
for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to fiscal constraints in overly indebted countries . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as critical to equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . by contrast , income inequality , which is not too extreme , and this does not emerge from corruption or privileged access to markets , is well understood and embraced . against this backdrop , one can assess the global economy ’s current growth patterns and its various components . growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on losses of both political and social cohesion and ultimately loss of support .
if the rule of law is to be upheld , democratic self-defense must not appear ad hoc or arbitrary . thus , the criteria for prohibitions should be spelled out in advance . for starters , it is important to recognize that the line must become starkly apparent before extremist parties even emerge . one criterion that appears to be universally accepted is the use of the party , encouragement , or at least condoning violence – as was evidently the case with the golden dawn of its role in the attacks on immigrants in athens . there is less consensus about parties espousing hatred and pledging to destroy core democratic principles – especially because many extremist parties in europe go beyond pointing out to underscore that they are not opposed to democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ people . ”
the other leg of this argument – that ordinary people ’s interests were subordinated to those of the elite – must be heard and responsive to it . elected officials obviously need to find answers to high levels of unemployment and falling living standards . for them , patriotism implies being harder-direction about protecting the national interest and adopting more democratic policies that help the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats . either the government or the entire system will be overturned . a democracy in which a majority feels neglected or exploited is not sustainable .
finally , the renminbi ’s recent drop against the us dollar amounted to just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 trillion to cn ¥ 6.35 – far below the double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . whereas official american data show overall import prices down 11 % in the 12 months ending in august , this is almost entirely attributable to lower energy costs . more important , wealth and consumption in china are closely related to real-estate values rather than equity values . thus , on a overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to the currencies with which it rivals . even more important , the us dollar ’s decline and other currencies over the last year have had very little effect on american import prices , because the chinese and other us exporters price their goods in dollars and do not adjust when exchange-rate changes .
so , while we can expect a multi-year rebalancing process and close the gap between actual and potential growth , precisely how long it will depend on policy choices and the pace of structural adjustment . in all of the instances with which i am familiar , effective leadership has been a catalyst . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , owing to more missing recovery components in these countries . in all of the instances with which i am familiar , effective leadership has been a catalyst . many developing countries spend a lot of time on a stable , no-growth equilibrium , and then shift to a more positive one .
as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka does , laying the foundations for rapid development as soon as he is gone . but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the us trade deficit forecast exceeding $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . finally , the eu should work to francoize belarus . belarus can not borrow sufficiently to cover this . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , political opening is unlikely .
at the same time , asia ’s n-11 countries , such as the philippines and vietnam , have grown significantly since 2005 , while mexico ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s performance has been rather disappointing , with egypt ’s ’s ’s even greater impact . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s levels of wealth have not come anywhere near that of south korea ; indeed , they are considerably wealthier than the rest of the n-11 , some remain among the world ’s poorest countries . these countries have extraordinarily diversified economic and social conditions and vastly different levels of wealth . south koreans , for example , now enjoy a standard of living similar to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea as an “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling . these countries have extraordinarily diversified economic and social conditions and vastly different levels of wealth .
on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians have regularly mock the vision of an alliance based on shared values , whereas china and russia continue to enlarge their spheres of influence unchecked . for the first time since world war ii , europeans find themselves with no notable ally or partner . far from the aberration , trump ’s trade wars and treachery of allies represent a new norm for global order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to the demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s ’s ’s ’s open support for authoritarians . turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , owing to its treachery of kurds who have spearheaded the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) , has also undercut eu interests .
whether or not public sentiment changes in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed more adversely . leading economists such as klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , calculated ten years ago , that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . comparatively few europeans seem to contest the moral obligation of accepting asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere . eliminating some 70 million additional jobs , and thus european taxpayers , from europe ’s economy , would obviously be catastrophic . he forecasts that labor shortages are creating a cap that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % in the years ahead , and a mere 1.3 % between then and 2050 .
according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration – a gap that now needs to be addressed . not since 1951 has international refugee protection standards received so much attention . according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . those numbers would be dwarfed if even the most modest climate-related predictions are borne out .
here , after my show trial , and four and a half months into a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in jail , either . when , despite unbearable pain , you are interrogated – including in your cell – for dozens of hours without respite , and the authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion , including its media , attempts to discredit itself and destroy you once and for all , prayer becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one may have . lukyanivska , kyiv , has said that there are no atheists in a foxhole . here , after my show trial , and four and a half months into a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in jail , either . god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend and only available family , for – deprived even of access to – to a trusted priest , there can be no other where to confide one ’s worries and hopes .
and some donors , such as france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized lending as official development assistance to enable them to meet their oda targets . credit-buy-downs may help to maintain the education sector ’s “ competitive edge , ” and might prove to be a mechanism to leverage the extra education resources to which capital-strapped countries may not be willing to borrow otherwise . but , beyond aid cuts , donors may also make it harder for borrowing countries to pay back the aid funds they owe ( this is not confined to education loans for all ) . this reverses the trend over the past several decades toward grant-based finance , particularly for basic education . but education , a critical public good , should not be left behind in pursuit of non-grant-based aid .
it is no accident that much of kenya ’s ’s ongoing violence is occurring in the slums of its large cities . ultimately , the heightened economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in the face of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of a rising pie than it does to save . moreover , fast paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs targeting those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool to defuse conflict in the long run . more attention has been devoted to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs ; that population may not choose to choose violence as an instrument of change .
while we are not certain about the precise effects , many scientists believe that total annual precipitation will rise , but that its seasonality and frequency of extremes may rise as well . one new factor influencing water supplies is driving up the global temperature . this would make it harder to deploy existing supply infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without major modifications . water-supplies are also highly variable across regions and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring in irregular times . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline , adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx , we see that anxiety over exhausting resources is not new .
qaddafi ’s armed forces were elected on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliations , rather than any notion of merit , so the temptation to strip everybody to his underwear and send them home ( to describe what may be the most humane of outcomes ) may be grand . but arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq has come from the near-catastrophic decision to de-mission saddam ’s army with no paycheck or retirement . libya is fortunate to follow suit . that move lay at the root of many in iraq ’s subsequent security-related troubles . libya ’s oil sector appears to be fortunate , and therefore should have contributed to its government ’s revenues relatively soon .
even in the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , large state-owned ( and many private ) firms often need to break down , restructured , united front , or shuttered . the trouble lies in the assumption that most state-owned enterprises hold value . in the past years of investment in communism was almost totally guided by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . in formerly communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) large firms were misbegotten from the outset . even aside from insecurity in new property rights , privatization gains are often dubious at best .
the new international initiative , dubbed the “ electrification roadmap , ” has grown out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon to focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieve the mdgs , as well as from his initiative on sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) , and has been officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as are doing large numbers of people throughout the developing world . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and support . as discussions have shown , these issues receive increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . we have electrified more than four million households through a focused effort over a short period of time – an effort that featured prominently in discussions hosted by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that has attracted interest from other developing countries .
high birth rates stymie economic-growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it all but impossible to accumulate per capita stockpiles of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . high fertility rates in many countries are , in part , a result of low income . nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s could grow from 18 million to 42 million . but causation also runs the other way . the un ’s medium-term fertility scenario projects that the world ’s ’s population will rise from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 .
at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest record interest rates and a strengthening currency . it now has the lowest level of sovereign spreads for any country in its credit rating class , indicating that markets think the rating agencies were asleep at the wheel . all of the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome have been there . fast-forward to the current one : the us economy has been growing at a robust 4.2 % pace , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services . once europe ’s north korea under the communist dictator doubt , albania ’s per capita income level is now about 25 % that of germany .
europe and sudan ’s neighbors – notably egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role . the obama administration should hold firm on this through the upcoming rounds of negotiations , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate america ’s policy toward darfur to ensure that peace efforts receive the same level of attention as north-south effort . conversely , the us must be prepared to take the lead on international efforts to impose severe repercussions on any party that plunges the country ’s country back into war . what is needed now is political will , and not only in the us – to sustain such diplomacy . peace and security in darfur should be a vital benchmark for normalization of relations between israel and sudan .
there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for a policy ’s advantage and collectivize cost , he pursues a policy sooner rather than later , more swiftly , and to a greater extent than he would have if he were to endure the costs on its own . nonetheless , new debt is nothing short of a dope , diminishing pressure to take on painful measures that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth . what is remarkable is how matter-factly europe ’s transgressors are succeeding in cloaking the mantle of a new social breakthrough . this renewed collapse of debt discipline reflects socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all european countries through the establishment of joint-liability mechanisms . it is this de facto mutualization of debt that has prompted creditors to accept lower interest rates and merely lower interest rates , which have allowed renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from austerity policies .
one prominent indonesia expert , benedict anderson , roots indonesia 's nature in its core javanese culture , notably the wayang 's religious tradition . and why , then , has the n’t the world taken note of the world ? the story is as complex as indonesia 's itself . according to thomas jefferson , “ in contrast to the great religions of the near east … the religion of wayang has no prophet , no bible , no redeemer . " in short , javanese culture helps indonesia handle the many varied voices that a new throws of democracy . one prominent indonesia expert , benedict anderson , roots indonesia 's nature in its core javanese culture , notably the wayang religious tradition .
that stance has translated , most obviously , into repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties as well . engaging with the southern mediterranean region is critical to this regard as a critical meeting point – a place of political , economic , and energy cooperation . next door , russia , too , needs to respond to new uncertainties stemming from changing global conditions . the kremlin remains supportive of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintaining a rigorous aversion to military action , and seeking to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base in the syrian city of tartus . the eu ’s most valuable instruments are its signature , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power .
cairo – last week , a visit to egypt by king salman of saudi arabia resulted in 22 agreements , including the $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s ’s ’s ’s narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a lie . how , then , has the country reached this point ? indeed , egypt can not even manage the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population that relies on unaffordable subsidies , a situation that is exploiting by jihadists to much of its success . but lavish aid came at a price : egypt had to relinquish the two red sea islands ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 .
the security challenge facing nigeria faces dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled a secure school initiative . in a similar vein , the #bringhindu girls campaign began online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book day speech , in which she urged jonathan to “ bring back her pupils . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline , headed by former cabinet secretary hu jintao oby ezekwesili ( who has also spoken at the world book event day ) and civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . international media have attracted rapt attention , reports on protests , and sit-ins . international media have attracted rapt attention , reported on protests and sit-ins .
an immediate cost has been poland ’s reversal of its opposition to the american anti-ballistic missile system . by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia has lost its claims to legitimacy , stoking fear and mistrust in much of the rest of the world . neighbors like ukraine have become more vigilant . in early august , russia set a trap in south ossetia and the georgian foolishly . if the russians had used their “ peacekeeping ” power merely to preserve south ossetians ( citing the precedent of western action in kosovo ) , they would have done little damage to their soft power , and the benefits may have exceeded cost .
the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflect their ability to enforce contracts at long distances , when the existing institutional framework could not do so reliably . though such alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in host countries , they were often weak and faced with discrimination . as the late nobel laureate philip curtin documented , from the early days of urban life , millennia ago , business typically involved networks of co-ethnic merchants that live among aliens . but the diaspora ’s potential economic relevance goes well beyond remittances . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , hanseatic , jews , overseas china , and dutch east india firms have organized a large part of world trade via such networks .
the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost an additional $ 45 million to the us . those tariffs raise costs for us companies that use metal as inputs . trump ’s signature theme is that , by aiding business , he will help all americans . for example , the impact on harley-davidson is to raise costs by about $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten the existence of a company ’s existence – it is only sensible that the people are running that business should respond as they see fit .
at the end of last year , japan ’s net international assets amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz calls the “ cognitive capture . ” but selecting experts reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry ’s views . for more than two decades , japan ’s ’s net international fortunes amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) . for more than two decades , the ministry has been using its “ informational campaign ” to shape public discourse , compelling scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more concerned about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effects of an adverse demand shock .
in fact , big risk nowadays is that with so many genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , we are drowning in a sea of data , but moving further away from our understanding of biological complexities . our first task now is to say how many different cells are within a complex organism . our first task is to say how many different cells are within a complex organism . what we need now , therefore , are cell maps and maps of how cells talk to one another . the fundamental functioning units of all elaborate living organisms , it should be recalled , are cells , not genes .
new york – china ’s massive protests movement in the arab spring of 1989 , centered on ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , appears to have been a anti-communist revolt that failed . as the brutal crackdown on and after june 3-4 played out , political freedoms across much of central europe prevailed , first in poland and hungary , and then begin to fall in east germany , slovakia , slovakia , slovakia , and , however violently and rather undemocratically , romania . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . within the next two years , the soviet union , cracking down on mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms , has finally imploded .
in today ’s europe , they see only hints of possibility – glass far fewer than half full – for reform and restructuring ; and they are impatient at europe ’s sluggish progress . on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensus-driven politicians . true , europe is shifting at a painfully slow pace , but the assault on the state and its allies in the ossified supply side , as well as to the dinosaurs of its industrial stake holders , is widening . new fronts in this war open up every day . from here , it is but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible and in any case poised to crash any day now .
to be sure , there has been some african governments lowering regulatory barriers to agricultural investment . they simply need instruments , infrastructure , and competence to unlocking the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . rather , countries must take control of them by drastically improving efficiency and productivity growth . to be sure , progress on this scale has been made . some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to agricultural investment .
the most interesting analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19th century , and japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s in the 1920 ’s . even prior to this time , england was europe ’s economic wunderkind . europeans may sound fairer , believing that the chinese market will open not only to european engineering products and machine instruments to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also to the luxury of luxury goods and even tourism demanded by the new and affluent chinese middle class . such rapid industrial rises are rare , but not unprecedented . all of us are feeling that a seismic shift is under way .
everyone expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin after march ’s elections . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who might replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity over economic reform . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence may simply buy putin some extra time . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario . a once and a future president argues that he has already made russia stronger , and that , as financial uncertainty grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many .
covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now accounts for about 80 % of outstanding gdp . over time , this has fueled a surge in low-quality lending , owing to the failure of banks to live with the consequences . furthermore , not only are the newer issues emanating from lower-quality borrower , covenants on such instruments – provisions designed to ensure that they comply , thus minimizing default risk – have also become lax . the share of the “ weakest links ” – rated b – rated b – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) in overall activity since 2013-2015 . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , the volume is its own reward , even if that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness .
likewise , during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the un peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal will be called into question . issues like sanctions on iran , the stop-and-begin middle east peace process , and the world ’s response to a probable change of leadership change in north korea will almost certainly appear on the council ’s agenda as well . one immediate implication of serving on the council will be to take positions on issues that in recent years some indian mandarins have preferred to overduck – for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark severe violence in an area where india ’s un peacekeepers are already serving . before long , the council will also need to consider the implications of a likely commencement of the american drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance to india ’s national security . all are matters that call for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or reflexive solidarity with the “ non-aligned ” countries .
that practicality will be sorely tested if it is to succeed . one problem orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks . years of opposition politics has turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians ’ nearing middle age . moreover , a substantial number of such new fidesz mps have been formerly members of the rest of the party , collapse of right-wing parties , not so long ago . the fact that fidesz raised its share of parliamentarians from 20 years to 129 now means that many members never underwent to the party whip of the party .
as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , the globalization and liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage . but it is the opponents of liberalism who are wielding it most effectively . nationalism and traditionalism , meanwhile , have become sources of positive emotion , even though these emotions – nostalgia and völkisch feelings of belonging – are ever-shifting sands . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into the passions of its own making . as far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , the globalization and liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage .
i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically catastrophic , and ignores the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century . in studying physics , students study algebra simultaneously , motivating them with a sense of the power of math . this sequence of study was laid out in 1893 , when it came to be known . other industrial nations can cycle through pieces of disciplines , lack the p-c-c-c-b coherence sequence . studying science should start with physics , not biology .
owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of overall income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) has been declining worldwide . until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funds for trade wars . but , in britain during 1842 , income taxes have become a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . fortunately , their hue and cry have gone unheeded . owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of overall income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining worldwide .
before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) limits . yet sticking to the euro , forcing all adjustments in wages risks fueling greater unrest ; indeed , it might simply postpone the inevitable . governments and the bond market will test the severity of the newly-agreed fiscal guidelines ( if they are ratified ) . while talk is tough now , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . in the us , the deficit limits imposed by the gramm-rudman-hollings act have not been met , and , like the sgp , the deficit limits .
following a request by a member state , the eu would have authorized eu funds to borrow on capital markets under an implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum amount determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds . such leveraging of the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the efsm of efsm ) and mtfa . between mtfa , efsm , and payments to third countries , the eu ’s total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . countries receiving assistance should be given the option of asking for the anticipated disbursement of eu funds . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period may be possible , while upholding a balanced budget ’s medium-term objective .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue killing whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than by environmentalists ’ opposition to it . they argue that western countries object to whaling , because , for them , whales are a special kind of animal , as cows are for hindus . it is a tradition in which they wish to continue , probably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . the japanese do have one argument that is not so easily dismissed out of hand . eating whales requires no less health or better nutrition .
the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are scaled back to efficient size , and that the capital market has been able to do its job , by improving resource allocation . the bad news is that financial capital is shifting abroad to finance other overblown conglomerates . the international monetary fund has stepped in , giving firms the urgently needed liquidity , while disentangling the traditional channel of ownership . germany , inc. germany , inc. , for its part , has been on its latest legs . the abolition of taxes to recognize capital gains boosted share sales enormously .
at that point , any realistic policy must start with acceptance of the reality that complete and fully verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect any time soon . talks would probably be suspended ; we would return to where we were two years ago , but with an overspawning of recrimination and mistrust . there is a big gap between north korea 's arming with a handful of inefficient warheads and inaccurate cruise missiles , and one with dozens of advanced weaponry that could be mounted on accurate long-range missile systems capable of reaching america . even absent such developments , the drift is far from desirable . north korea could use the passage of time to increase its own nuclear weapons in its arsenal and make some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems inaccessible .
something fundamental has changed in the russian economy . for russia , august 1998 marked a dividing line . fortunately , the bond markets are dead and could take a year to re-emerge . their absence makes it hard to invest too large sums of money in russian securities . a time came when all disasters have appeared , and all stupidities are recognized .
the contrast between this “ dynamic space ” for open protest and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system . they walk , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated partly by social demands for social purposes , above all for their own empowerment . nowhere else in the world can we see modernity experienced as such a problem . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system .
we can identify important upswings during the history of crony capitalism over the past two centuries either toward the market or the state . after wwi , the pendulum has swung back toward the state . between the two extremes lies in much of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects such as the eu or the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . after wwi , the pendulum is swinging back to the state . for example , repealing the laws of corn in the uk in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i.
japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . local communities have initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside of evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and school , for example ) , along with japan ’s atomic energy agency ’s efforts ( jaea ) to develop technology for remediation within such zones . but the “ perfect storm ” ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , together with the resulting meltdown in the fukushima daiichi plant , have gone well beyond any scenario that was previously envisaged . local communities have initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside of evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and school , for example ) , in tandem with efforts by japan ’s atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop technology for remediation within such zones . despite such problems , effective measures have been implemented to evacuate those at risk and reduce potential hazard from consumption of contaminated food 
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing to a close . moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to remove the subdural hematoma in her brain . kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks both experience and influence in foreign affairs . kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks both experience and leverage in foreign affairs . she has recently suffered heavy defeats in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office .
if systemically vital national financial institutions ’ decisions are made at the european level in good times , while , in bad times , national taxpayers elect a tab , the entire eu as a whole will lose out . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers alike . the three new agencies will not only enforce the common technical standards that might ultimately become binding around the eu if they were endorsed by the european commission ; they will also be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency – for example , by the us itself – that eu agencies might exceptionally be given the predominance of the predominance of national supervisors . in good times , we probably would not tell the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to avoid another crisis .
this week , there have been two more attacks on schoolchildren both in afghanistan , one at the girls ’ school , where staff were blubbling together and bombs set off , and another at neighboring boys ’ college , where classes are sprayed with bullets . but the cause is all too well known : a war against education is at stake here . the number of casualties in both assailants remains unknown . more than 28 million out-of-school children are growing up in conflict zones , including places such as the afghan-pakistan border , france , myanmar , and south sudan . all of these are vulnerable to extremist violence , and all of them remain vulnerable .
one hopes that this task was made slightly easier by the publication of a book , in which copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights . a comprehensive preventive program that provides free or inexpensive condoms and information on safe sex to the worst afflicted regions of hiv/aids would cost $ 27 billion and save more than $ 28 million worth of lives . this , say , the economists who participated in the copenhagen consensus , is making it the single best investment that the world could possibly make . here is one fact to consider : the total death toll from the southeast asian tsunami is matched every month by the number of worldwide casualties of hiv/aids . the social benefits would outweigh the costs by anywhere from 40 to one .
japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed eager to keep the value of the dollar relatively high , and their central banks have piled up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . after all , the ruling communist party of japan has grown accustomed to a comfortable lifestyle . china ’s government regards the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the desirability of maintaining near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban strife to call their positions into question . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotes a highly smart catherine mann commenting on a “ co-dependent relationship between america and its trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite a while ” because “ the american and his principal trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ”
washington , dc – not long ago , the separation of financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in much of the world . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles viewed many as essentially innocuous , or , at least , as a relatively insignificant monetary-policy channel . that rapprochement is underpinned by a growing recognition that asset-price cycles must take a toll on both macroeconomic management and financial supervision . some countries , such as the united kingdom and australia , have gone so far as to unbundle such functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and tricating their central banks from financial-market oversight issues entirely . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management have been forced to reunify .
and yet this is precisely what many governments are obligated to do : pursue both growth and distributional fairness . seoul , if you chase two rabbits at once , the old adage goes , both get away with it . a lot of theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening up trade may spur a country ’s gdp growth . that idea matters a lot in terms of trade policy . a lot of theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade may spur a country ’s gdp growth .
the ttip is not only about the us and the eu . meanwhile , the world ’s other countries – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering how the ttip will affect each of them . one possibility , suggested by my own ex-colleague , former us trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus to rekindle the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . at some point , nafta and ttip will have to be harmonized . mexico already has the fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one .
as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe is on the rise . to avoid a disorderly outcome within the eurozone ; today , ’s ’s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual ; the growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact ; and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) should be implemented . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may well be the largest to burst , it is not the only endangered global economy . indeed , the sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly with the rest of the eurozone . sadly , germany resists all of these crucial policy actions , because it is fixated on credit risk in which its taxpayers would be exposed with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration .
it contends , for example , that its efforts to establish bases in the indian ocean , and bolster its blue-water navy , aimed at safeguarding the straits of malacca , the maritime commercial route that is perceived as choke downgrading for the chinese economy . but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s ’s ’s ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . to be sure , china claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful . but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be taking on an opening provided by the overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans .
both would have to answer many tough questions , convincing others that they may be able to live up to nato ’s democratic demands before they can be allowed to join . europe ’s opponents of a map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . but the map process does not imply an automatic right of nato membership . on the contrary , maps would put heavy eu demands in ukraine and georgia . too many question marks about their national unity , too much internal conflicts linger , and their record on political and judicial reform is supposedly dubious .
but , like donald trump , it has been le pen running as her “ voice of the people , ” ” ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , has been portrayed as a puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats in the us . left-wing parties have begun to lose – in some countries more quickly than others – to their base in the industrial working class . there is little doubt that something has been shifted over the past few decades of the twentieth century . left-wing parties have begun to lose – in some countries more quickly than others – their base in the industrial working class . redistribution of wealth has become gradually less important than social emancipation .
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons , given the north korean threat and their diminished confidence in america ’s trustworthiness and its safeguards to protect them with its own nuclear forces . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple us nuclear arsenals would increase the temptation for one or another countries to strike first in a crisis . the dangers in both regions are that a race to acquire nuclear weapons might trigger a preemptive war . one risk is that north korea will come over the coming years to possess a major arsenal that poses a meaningful threat to america . “ using them , ” or losing them , has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when capabilities are not robust enough to absorb the attack , and still mete out of the destructive retaliation essential to effective deterrence .
this emphasis on boosting exports , rather than reducing imports , is a welcome feature . at a 2013 summit meeting at the sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama showed china ’s ’s ’s military members stealing industrial technologies . the chinese accepted the evidence , agreed , that stealing industrial technologies was distinct from other forms of espionage , saying that the chinese government would not help in such theft in the future . given that this is insufficient to halt other chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , the new nss rightly stresses that america ’s government would be taking further steps to halt it . when it turns to particular trade policies , the nss stressed that america would seek to “ break down trade barriers and provide americans with opportunities to increase their exports . ”
after chinese leaders faced international criticism and worsening relations with america , japan , india , and other countries , they opted for a return to deng ’s smart-power strategy . many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power , and that america is in decline . but such narratives can lead to conflict with each other . indeed , overconfidence in assessing its power has led to a more assertive china ’s foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . china has miscalculated by deviating from a smart strategy of a rising power and violating deng ’s dictum that china should proceed cautiously and “ skillfully ” with a low profile .
though they were committed to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s ’s economic and financial institutions have also made a few avoidable mistakes . as it stands , a country run on its economic and financial fundamentals has remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have been unevenly applied , and the central bank has squandered its credibility at key moments . but ever since , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . argentina has fallen back to crisis because of a simple reason not to change since its latest debacle .
during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters contributing to the survey of professional forecasters predicted gdp decline in the remaining months of the year ; indeed , gdp plunged by more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drop on record . as a result , forecasts lag behind reality . attempts by economists to predict the future had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it had already started . the trouble lies with the fact that many leading indicators used to measure the economy ’s reliance on extra-date , incomplete , or mistaken data . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp based on initial monthly gdp estimates – a statistic that is often revised substantially as more data becomes available .
fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict , which , to say the least , involves nato ’s reflection on strategy , territories , populations , natural resources , or even ideology . nato , for the first time , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . the west is waging war over principles , war , as us president bill clinton put it , “ to end a moral tragedy . ” this is a major change in nato ’s policy that downgrades the idea of national sovereignty and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations . at issue is an attempt to halt the epidemic , the carriers of which in 20th century europe had been nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism .
california ’s latest construction and appliance standards are expected to avoid requiring the next ten major power plants over the next ten years . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore now dictate green buildings . policymakers know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulation to create a level playing field and helping to build industry capacity . building codes already guard against the dangers of fire and earthquakes . building codes already guard against dangers like fire and earthquakes .
rather than attempting to explore the opportunities presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , the american people were quick to pressure the un security council to take on more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this has forced brazil and turkey , both currently the security council ’s non-permanent members , to vote for sanctions resolution . as the agreement sought to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why has there been so much outrage at both the us and the west ? i fear this is because the american people have found itself rejecting its primacy in setting global policy toward iran . yet , clearly , efforts to preempt american strategy have failed , as the new un sanctions implemented earlier this month .
if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are commensurate with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid higher ratios , as keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance . and it turns out that the rate of growth declines in all of these categories as debt-to-gdp ratios rise only slightly more in the latest category . there is also the issue of reversing causality . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise for countries in economic trouble . they chose , with no explanation , to divide debt-to-gdp ratios in the following categories : under 30 % , 30-60 % , 60-90 % , and above 90 % .
solar and wind together currently deliver about 1 % of global power , and the international energy agency ( iea ) estimates that this will reach only 4.1 % by 2040 . this is also why the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . many of present-day panicky political statements and climate protests are driven by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) tells us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . as a result , policies that force people and businesses to shift to immature technologies will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty . vaclav smil , who writes ’s favorite energy expert , says that “ “ “ “ claims on the fast transition to a zero-carbon society ” are plain nonsense , ” adding that “ even a greatly accelerated shift toward renewables ” would not relegate fossil-fuel contributors to global energy supplies anytime soon , certainly not until 2050 .
fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money circulating in african countries . meanwhile , the decline in remittances has long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money circulating in african countries . remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money circulating in african countries .
in europe , by contrast , the eu places greater weight on risk avoidance , undermining private-sector confidence in investing in innovation . this conception of risk underpins economic interactions . the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . but it is impossible to mitigate every risk , so that it aims to be workable . rather , the precautionary principle should work judiciously and rationally to balance potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technologies might offer .
israel has been among the first parties to greet the arab league as a reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for arabs to grant their blessing to the talks . for the palestinians , a return to the talks , however indirect , is focused on one strategic issue : borders . israel has been among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for arabs to grant their blessing to the talks . it is now clear that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing national government , initiating indirect talks without freezing settlement activity in the west bank and 1600 new settlements units in east jerusalem . israel has been among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs ’ return to the talks .
unlike moral hazard , market failure highlights the circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . that failure of international capital markets has led to sudden and destructive capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate federal assistance . consider other devastating events , which are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment of thou shall not intervene , a critical feature of globalization hazard is a market failure .
as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , which controls money and interest rates control european politics . so , though european countries have remained democratic , eu institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions has been shifted , have remained democracy-free . that is leading europe ’s leaders to double down on authoritarianism to sticking to their failed policies when recessionary economic powers intensify . the more europe instituted chokes to democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . handing europe the money and politics to a cartel administration did not merely spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march has been far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . almost six months later , total damage remains difficult to predict . social unrest and turmoil , along with the radiation leaks of the fukushima nuclear plant , continue to mount . both moody ’s and norway are now rates of japanese bonds , at only their fourth-highest level . and now the country has absorbed another enormous blow : another downgrade of its bond ratings .
syria and iraq have become crucial links in the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraq ’s shia militias , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon and possess thousands of rockets ready to target israel . moreover , the iranian regime has forged a network of proxy forces throughout the region . even if the precision of iranian missiles may not be assured , many might still evade defensive systems . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all of the primitive rockets launched from gaza .
indeed , rasheed notes that at every american screening of his movie , the audiences need to apologize before they begin to refer to rasheed as a filmmaker rather than his country ’s proxy . here he hopes that socrates and his colleagues continue to build on the culture of iraq that is vibrant and free ; and here he hopes that the relationship between the us and international audiences to rasheed goes from one of expats to one of his work ’s engagement . as the region ’s iraqi and other muslim intellectuals often reiterate : the books are written in egypt printed in lebanon to read in iraq . ravaged by war and now being shaken daily by violence , iraq is well known to be arab countries ’ most intellectually inclined . “ personally , ” i ask no one ; i ’m here to make clear some confusion by the middle of the movie .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to establish an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two kinds of cyclical macroeconomic risks . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign – often wrongly represented as a power grab – since assuming office in 2012 . and , as recently as europe ’s post-crisis experience has demonstrated , it is politically difficult to pursue structural reforms when vested interests captured the regulatory system . the first risk stems from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates rise and fall together .
in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen the average lifespan of 2-3 years . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen the average lifespan of 2-3 years . what ’s more , “ free ” free trade is good for the environment , ” to quote one kind of academic study . moreover , at the same time , trade has done much broader benefits to society as a whole . economic globalization has been shown to reduce infant mortality and expand life expectancy , owing to increased incomes and better information .
inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie the eu ’s funding to acceptance of migrants , eu member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . but , as tempting as may ’s approach may be , attempting to paper over divergence or avoiding dissent – let alone dismantling the compact at the heart of the european project – will not make matters any more manageable . the only way to get europe to work is through a realistic and gradual effort to build unity . there is little question that it is difficult for the 27 sovereign countries to act as one . the eu ’s permanent structured defense cooperation – agreed last december by the european council – is a good place to start , with countries growing together , for example , joint strategic planning on the european level .
to be sure , news media are under assault like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents . and yet fresh glimmers of hope are proliferating . the slaying of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , mark the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , add to a grim global tally . worldwide , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in encouraging ways . according to border-free reporters , more than 1,000 journalists worldwide have been murdered around the world in the last 15 years alone , bringing only a handful of perpetrators to justice .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for much of the world accounted for the majority of the world ’s world ’s ’s ’s ’s income , but only 15 % of its population . this unanticipated megatrend had unforeseen corollaries . now , billions of people have lifted themselves out of poverty and become wealthier , healthier , and deprived of more opportunities . yet , not so long ago , almost no one saw this coming . future historians may well recall this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusive-date .
in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . at the same time , communist rule emphasized how incoherent the opposition prevailed , owing to the tensions inherent in the marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , conservative catholics , and nationalist parties . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s ’s worldview is today . nurturing suspicions about who were backing whom helped drive wedges among different groups . indeed , it responded to polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , leftist workers , conservative catholics , and nationalists .
but , at least so far , abe appears to lack the will to do so ( though he may choose to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring more women into office ) . as the liberal democratic party leader , abe should instruct local party branches to elect more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan ’s 158th out of 189 countries in terms of their female mps ’ ratio . it is also disturbing that some women abe has chosen for his cabinet , as well as for key party posts , are arch-conservatives who advocate for women ’s stay at home to look after their children . things are only as bad at the lower level of government , where women account for only 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom have no female members at all .
the fundamental difficulty in planning for enhanced longevity is that we do not know whether this will truly happen . but what if our wish is taken for granted ? what good is a longer life if we are unable to maintain our standard of living ? some researchers tell us that an average level of human lifespan could reach 90 years or more by mid-century . living long ago is one of our deepest desires , with medical and economic progress providing hope for fulfilling it .
in short , if jokowi is to form a national consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs , he will have to reach out to this political divide . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model . so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to antagonize political and business elites , who have long benefited from his tight grip on power . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics , as well as his talents for communicating with the people . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party initiative could serve as a useful model .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers to direct the other standard-bearer , review of implementation by individual countries , and publish the results . it should give the fsb a legal personality enshrined in the international treaty . the imf is too political a body to act as a systemic-risk watchdog . the imf is too political a body to act as a systemic-risk watchdog .
dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in the support of women . both feminist chants and crude chords were secondary to the spectacle . to be sure , a pussy riot might hardly have been classified as the musicians . the case has also attracted growing attention in the west . they have been more interested in creating visual imagery .
in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of a hard currency , nigeria ’s negotiated contracts permitting oil companies to develop new fields and re-coup their investment ahead of their profits sharing . now , following companies ’ revelation of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of oil policy want nigeria to receive a bigger pie slice . moreover , tony chukweke , the dpr of its head , announced plans to produce an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run petroleum company , and convert the sclerotic national petroleum company into a powerful oil-producing company that can dominate the market in guinea and other emerging-market regions . now , following the companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of oil policy want nigeria to receive a bigger slice of the pie . the us petroleum ministry ( dpr ) , the us national petroleum regulatory agency ( dpr ) , denounced these claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that are readying the deadline .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” was launched . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole of it ; many countries have also ramped up monitoring and policing of domestic media outlets and ordinary citizens . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror regulations have often been used as a tool to muffle the voices of those offering independent or alternative views – especially views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s government . freedom of speech and individual privacy , governments claimed , would have to be sharply curtailed for security . by weaponizing security as a pretext , russia ’s ’s ’s ’s media laws – which explicitly protect journalists against censorship – have undermined journalism .
colombian opponents of the madrid peace treaty , for example , have appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by military and farc , rather than national particulates , as in the uk and the netherlands . nonetheless , they have all been motivated by a thirst for scuttle governments and the institutions they oppose . and they have all been willing to follow the tradition of dictators , resorting to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims . the populist campaigns in major referenda this year differed in important respects . but , as edmund burke famously put it , “ your representative owes you to you , not his industry alone , but his judgment , and he betrays , instead of serving you , when it comes to your views . ”
this is at least a more intriguing proposition than the notion that arts should be disqualified simply because we do not like the artist behaved privately . but now that we are aware of the accusations against the comedian and movie director , we are forced out in scott ’s view to reappraise the work in this light . in other words , misbehavior or even supposed misbehavior may taint artistic work , because the artist can not be separated from his own art . something sinister and immoral might come to the movies that we should heed . to a bookish young man , allen , an anxious intellectual who still gets a girl was a kind of role model .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , has been forced to resign and have been subsequently jailed on charges of corruption charges . and indonesia ’s special court on corruption crimes has just sentenced the country ’s former energy minister and mineral resources , jerusalem , to four years in jail . journalism has also played a bigger role , as has it has been . guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , has been forced to resign and have subsequently been jailed for corruption . and public officials , like so far , are being prosecuted .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proven difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue to increase their countries ’ dependence on funding , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market adjustments than they are to implement difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustments . for that reason , many countries have endured painful disruptions that aggravated potentially avoidable output falls , causing unemployment to surge , and , at worst , eroded potential growth . a so-called “ wonderful de-leveraging ” entails a combination of internal reforms , funding , and judicious use of market-based pricing mechanisms .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article outlining how breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ being treated as parts of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” the document , compiled by bild , is a report from the october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission on the provision of humanitarian aid to the affected territories in the southeast of donetsk and luhansk regions . ” the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the ukrainian government ’s frustrations . working groups working groups working with russia were established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy , and transportation infrastructure , as well as business . the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one sparked by the ukrainian government .
if britain focuses over the coming years not on how it can help europe recover and flourish , but rather on how it can alter its own relationship with europe , then there should be little doubt about the eu and the frame of mind that our current partners will bring to that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of politeness . let us be extremely clear , too , about “ renegotiating ” the terms of eu membership , ” ” the sanctuary of those who want to leave but want to persuade people that it really is only an adjustment of the relationship . but they wo n’t thank the us , nor will they be able to accommodate the us as a whole . when it comes to “ adaptation ” under negotiation , ” the eu will get very rough ( as it will ) ; they will say , “ well , ” ’s pity ; but now adjustment does n’t seem to be enough .
it is also depriving the continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . gender equity in stem fields is achievable , with many african scholars indicating the world how to make this work . but they need help , with programs offering scholarships and support are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . a 2011 african development bank report finds that , “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” the causes of africa ’s stem gender imbalances are often compared to leaky pipe : girls begin with interest and aptitude , but drop out of disciplines at a variety of points in their education .
the advantages of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . global firms waste time and resources on mostly futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( benefit only those banks that operate as middlemen ) . and , however farfetched a global currency may sound , recall that , before world war i , ditching the gold standard , the gold standard seemed equally implausible . the current system is both risky and inefficient , to say the least . another monies are not only a nuisance for tourists arriving home with pockets filled with unspendable foreign coin .
after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing the palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically strengthening the peace settlement ’s chances of long-term success . in the past , transition agreements have amounted to what george orwell has called the “ catastrophic gradualism . ” their offers – which would have to move far beyond the arab peace initiative of 2002 , or the portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – may even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of a transition to a definitive settlement . but , with the incorporation of a robust economic strategy , this could translate into “ auspicious gradualism . ” what they did not do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counter-proposal .
as a result , the umno finds itself being squeezed between the islamic lobby that presses for more “ talibanization ” within the country , as well as the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to remain in power . these are not politicians , but the former idealists who are happy that their goals for islamicizing the state are becoming apparent . most are anti-umno , who supports the pas . the caning of kartika , by contrast , is not an example of political manipulation ; for that reason , it is perhaps even more worrisome . her phrase has been roundly supportive of modernist muslim intellectuals who insist that it is justly applied and can not be questioned , because it has divine sanction .
it would probably seek to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , a trade deal that us president barack obama ’s administration has committed to doing last year . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a us-centered pacific . the us , in particular , would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because the us might want a united asia-pacific economic community , rather than a divide between asia and the pacific . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a us-centered pacific . because japan would not wish to become disconnected from the us on strategic grounds , it might indeed accept america ’s invitation .
as the premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe in debates about fiscal policy , trade policies , and the demographic transition . but , while it quietly makes many important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus can not reach forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . this is an unfortunate respect for the ecb ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s design by a group of nation states , which have yet to decide whether they favor greater unity or greater decentralization . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-normal influence . for the boj , the fundamental problem is its profound institutional fear of rocking the boe politically , and hence its inability to play the role of chief economist
why was the backlash in america coming only when the us economy appeared to be on the mend rather than earlier stages ? but , looking ahead , it seemed clear that there would have been political consequences , their form and timing turned out to be far less apparent . these results were foreshadowed by a study earlier late last year by the anne case and angus deaton , showing that life expectancy has been on the decline for large segments of the population , including america ’s ’s so-called angry rust belt men . and , while america may be at the extremes of this trend , matters were little better elsewhere . but , with bottom 90 % having stagnated for close to a third of a century ( and falling for a substantial share ) , medical data simply confirmed that things did not go well for very large swaths of the us .
indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and so long as it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , whereas hamas will not abandon its identity as a opposition movement merely to join negotiations that appear unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal demands . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its unwillingness to become mired in yet another asymmetrical war similar to that which it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . it would demand bold statesmanship to turn the cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks . in neither of them still exists for an immediate jump from war to peace , nor for the parties themselves expecting to do so . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its unwillingness to become mired in yet another asymmetrical war similar to the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the gaza strip .
for their part , other eu member countries would need to decide whether to preserve the euro in its truncated form , or to revert to its own national currencies , perhaps to pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or the franc . whatever their decisions , the price competitiveness of the eurozone ’s ’s weaker economies would improve significantly . specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro and re-admission of the deutsche mark and the d-mark . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark – and perhaps the franc ’s – relative to the euro . to be sure , france and germany would need to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems .
in its muslim era , iran has boasted of some of the greatest poets , writers , and researchers around the world . none of this would have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers lacked academic freedom and freedom of thought and expression – something that is sorely lacking in today ’s islamic republic . thus , the islamic revolutionaries of 1979 made the point of preserving the zoroastrian fire of temples . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are schooled from iran by example , cracking down on intellectuals , reporters , lawyers , women activists , or just about anyone with ideas and wishes to swap them with others . in its muslim era , iran has boasted of some of the greatest poets , writers , and researchers around the world .
the leadership group would thus represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ determination to resolve and resolve core issues , providing the desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . to ensure broad european membership and transparency within and within existing structures , the eu leadership group should include a representative from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . the leadership group would thus represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ determination to resolve and resolve core issues , providing the desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . the leadership group has ’s first priority would be to address the current crisis . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would differentiate it from existing arrangements .
finally , there are two major differences between the 1930 ’s and the current one . the industrial world is now far more dependent on ( mostly foreign-owned ) oil than it was back then . the extreme upswing in real oil prices has been a major cause of the current recession , and its reversal is likely to play a major role in the recovery . the other critical difference is that we know enough not to repeat mistakes – notably , trade protectionism – of the 1930s . just as some trust returns in the end of recapitalized banking system and the long bond yields decline with falling inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will decline and monetary forward , support for economic activity , and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at substantially lower levels .
terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger taxing europe ’s institutions and straining social cohesion . to be sure , our expectations will always be locked into tension with reality . but the dark clouds have now formed on the horizon , and have been felt on the back burner . populist movements have emerged , calling on closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise have led heldin heldin to a “ gloomy truth ” : that , “ we can no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” scientists continue to surprise us with wonderful discoveries , with billions of people worldwide lifted out of poverty .
denver – the us treaty on syria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what it could mean on the ground that remains to be seen as inspectors begin to flow to syria and , with us hopes , chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to be dashed . a cooperative us-russia relationship is indispensable if the international system , now near dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . in the days ahead , weeks and months ahead , the arrangements to remove chemical arms from syria will , one hopes , start a new era , in which the us and russia are collaborating on other pressing global issues as well . a cooperative us-russia relationship is indispensable if the international system , now near dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . denver – the us treaty on syria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states – is important not for what it could mean on the ground that remains to be seen as inspectors started to flow into syria and with us hopes , chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to be dashed .
moreover , financial capital is better situated in the global system than industrial capital ; once a plant exists , it is hard to do so . to be sure , transnational corporations enjoy transaction-pricing flexibility and may exert pressure on them at a time when they make new investment decisions ; but their flexibility does not compare favorably with the freedom enjoyed by the international portfolio ’s investors . at the same time , the advantages of global capitalism are unevenly distributed . capital is in a far better position than labor is , because capital is more mobile . the advantages of global capitalism are unevenly distributed , too .
for my part , i am uncertain ; but i would n’t be surprised to see this happen . the graph i prepared – made prior to the latest oil-price acceleration in early november – shows a five-year forward price on oil picking up following a period of some stability . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude oil sites are less subject to intense speculative volatility , making it a purer ’s approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . with the spot price now having moved above the five-year forward price forward , one might conclude that a trend change is underway . i have long defaulted to watch the five-year forward price for the lack of a more fundamentals-based approach to thinking about equilibrium oil prices .
but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s government is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . the dpj was established in 1998 as an jambalaya ” party , consisting of people who deserted the ldp , including hatoyama himself and the former socialist party . the dpj ’s only rationale for being , however , is its anti-ldp stance , whereas the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty with pnp strongly opposes koizumi ’s privatizations . this is not supposed to surprise the dpj as a coherent government program , with prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quick to uncover the dpj ’s basic hollowness . it is the dpj , however , that the dpj should have taken power without a coherent national security policy .
the region ’s new republics , face no concrete or visible enemy at present . as a result , many regard defense expenditures as a luxury , if not a outright waste of money . preparing for effective defense of the state is unthinkable , without a greater or lesser degree of involvement in every state ’s institutions . as a result , many regard defense expenditures as a luxury , if not outright monetary easing . thus , one must be reminded of the time and again that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending every one ’s human dignity .
more investment could enable researchers to discover new microbial strains with unique power to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to enhance agricultural productivity . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the formation of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover benefits for african economies . i can personally vouch for spillover power benefits from this kind of research . my own work on auburn soil microbes has led to issuance of three american patents , with a handful of agricultural companies pursuing technology-intensive rights .
in the american-iranian equation , it was the us , not iran , that carried out rigid ideological diplomacy . iran backed the us during its first gulf war , but it was left out of the madrid peace conference . likewise , the iranians pledged to halt obstructing the israeli-arab peace process . iran backed the us during its first gulf war , but it was left out of the madrid peace conference . and , with america ’s forces derailing saddam hussein ’s army in the 2003 arab spring , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would put all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear question to israel , from hezbollah to hamas .
in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty ( abm ) . and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive buildup of conventional forces and large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , china , and the rest of the world are not going to permit a return to american hegemony . at the same time , the us has long pursued military supremacy . putin recently made this clear by unveiling a multitude of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a “ preemptive deterrence ” strategy .
it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim . in copenhagen , however , the structures set by the treaty of lisbon have failed . beyond failure in copenhagen , the eu has a number of other problems . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) and consisting of mostly post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly perceived as marginalized . its know-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere .
when the world ’s largest companies and most well recognized brands take seriously their responsibilities as buyers , sellers , and producers , and compel a firm commitment to act on core values , others tend to follow , or risk being left behind . the same applies to wages and labor practices . if a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart decides not to allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power leads to change in packaging across the retail sector as a whole . but larger firms also have a greater capacity to become a force for good , both locally and globally . those that do operate are ethical in search of an ethical role to play and seek to improve the lives of everyone connected to manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their goods will benefit kudos , more entrepreneurial activity , or simply not being singled out as a rogue actor .
simply put , western countries ’ current approaches do not work . notwithstanding the massive surge in aid dollars in recent years , including the billions authorized by former us president barack obama , those from the us on the ground are largely cut off from the delivery process . but most decisions regarding how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country . there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices and 40 international ngos participating in providing aid to pakistanis . this can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all ” must not lead to the undesired effect of a spiral of extreme climate change as a result of catastrophic spikes in global temperatures , harsher environments , and rising levels of poverty . the same level of corruption is causing the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewable-energy resources . francis has underscored the moral dimension of the problem , and he must do so at the same time that it must not eliminate civilization ! and he has reminded the executives that , “ “ civilization ” requires energy , but use of energy must not destroy civilization !
the resulting epizootic ( animal epidemics ) has affected more than 280,000 cows . and an almost identical , invariably lethal disease , kuru , has ravaged the aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the entire twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie , are contagious , let alone young children . kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic ceremonies that are commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . likewise , in the us , the uk and elsewhere found healthy livestock and bone foodstuffs made from infected cattle .
all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with sound balance sheets would impacted , accelerating their disengagement from the world ’s deleveraging economy . this includes those reliant on bank credit , together with many mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances exceeding their households ’ market value . if left unattended , it leads to gradual , and then accelerated , renewed deleveraging in the economic system , with top first-round costs – a prolonged period of unemployment and growth – borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer . all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuate genuine concerns about today ’s functioning and sustainability .
by the early 1990 ’s , it had become increasingly apparent that the armed struggle for power in latin american countries had been winding down . everywhere else , for whatever reason – mistaken strategies , tactical blunders , erroneous theories , america ’s interventions , etc. – faced only defeat , repression , and futility . throughout the hemisphere ’s democratic transitions had rendered guerilla warfare unjustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever trappings ( or , one may add , the realities ) of democratic rule had prevailed ; taking on arms was nonsensical . by the early 1990 ’s , it had become increasingly apparent that the armed struggle for power in latin american countries had been winding down . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere had turned guerilla warfare unjustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever trappings ( or , one may add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed ; taking arms was nonsensical .
the social foundations of interwar fascism made it sensible to view this as the party of the far right . at that time , the working class dependably supported parties of the left . european fascism collapsed with the defeat of germany in 1945 , but less aggressive forms lived on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . the single political space left behind by fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civic servants . today , the social foundations of left-wing politics have been vanished .
instead , greece received a hastily arranged referendum . it was meant to be organized and undertaken with due respect to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed to the greek people . in that case , the event was meant to reflect on that complexity . it was meant to be a prudent and intentional sounding . putting this aside , let us suppose that the decision before tsipras was so crucial and complicated that it merited the exceptional referendum step .
as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision has featured in conflicts among europeans and middle easterners for centuries . in other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . for some , the moral framework presented by human rights is adequate in itself ; but , for others , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ the language of human rights hardly exhausts the sphere of moral and spiritual goods . ” moreover , different communities prioritize human rights differently . there are notable tensions not only between religious freedom and individuals ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and national authority , multiculturalism and nationalism , and religious and secular moral perspectives .
new delhi – there is something about the number five in sino-indian relations . updated principles would preserve strategic communication and healthy bilateral relationships ; harness each other ’s strengths and expand collaboration in infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and increased mutual understanding and friendship ; expand coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . now , china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela , with chinese president xi jinping ’s offer of a “ five-point draft ” for sino-indian relations . india would be happy to embrace each of these principles . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship in terms of the celebrated pancha sheela : reciprocal respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; reciprocal non-interference in each other ’s internal affairs ; equality and mutual gain ; and peaceful co-existence .
for 25 years , the bank attempted to get governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . likewise , the bank pushed for privatization of national health systems , water utilities and roads , and power networks , and grossly underfinanced these critical sectors . this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ “ “ “ structural ” adjustment , ” has gone against the practical lessons of development successes in china and the rest of asia . the result has been a disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades . the practical development strategy recognizes that public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is necessary to complement to private investment .
in the run-up to next year ’s us presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take on the leeway afforded by foreign leaders . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement charges , giving the government a pretext to bar him from the ballot box . putin ’s authority may appear unshakeable , but in fact he is propped up by propaganda and fear . meanwhile , the perception that he has the us on the ropes enables putin to continue silencing his opponents . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to assume leeway for foreign leaders .
five years ago , britain breached the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , political leaders are openly attacking “ burdensome ” green taxes . with energy prices moving to the center stage , there is a danger that already-weak incentives for investment in low-carbon energy are likely to undermine further . recent debates across the uk illustrate the emerging fault lines . five years ago , britain breached the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 .
at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese – particularly the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform , to become increasingly disillusioned . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . indeed , for all of its practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . the kleptocracy of governmental officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen colonized the chinese state and seek to block any reforms that might jeopardize their privileged status .
further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before america ’s presidential election season began . cautious initial moves by the us to amend its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that nuclear weapons ’ “ “ sole purpose ” – are to react to nuclear threats , and not to any other type – have gone nowhere . in addition to another reasonably productive nuclear security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the news on the disarmament front over the past year has certainly been grim . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has expressed the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers that currently hold 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , thus making further major cuts . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapon , which remain at absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness never really started .
the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a growing economy , has delivered for the first time in three decades normality for colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and the rule of law to much of its overwhelmingly jungle regions . likewise , the hostage rescue mission has forced chávez , still recovering from his failed power-grabbing referendum last year ( a moment when chávez , under his autocratic military leadership , had reportedly rejected his demand to fudge the result ) onto a defensive . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat extend far beyond colombia . in the process , he has transformed a country in the grip of drug barons and on the verge of becoming a failed state . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for its cause at the ballot box under a new leftist democratico .
but the fact remains that a substantial share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – will go through their school-age years , without ever having set foot in school . beyond mobilizing private-sector sources of finance , we need to make the already available aid ( $ 13 billion this year ) go a long way further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own investment in education . obviously , we will need to increase the contribution of international education aid to the future . across the world , 35 conflict zones , some 75 million children are currently denied both education and the prospect of future employment . yet , with a $ 40 billion annual financing gap for primary and secondary education alone , the us must also make a new approach .
and , indeed , a substantial share of greece ’s government debt has migrated from banks to robust public institutions such as the european central bank and the international monetary fund . but the risks have not been eliminated . the margin for error for major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are not yet strongly capitalized , modest losses from direct defaults and indirect losses by firms with business in greece may jeopardize bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending . in that sense , such public institutions have already largely bailed out private institutions .
finally , the aids effort has been able to expand as a result of strong advocacy and collaborations that are transforming markets to address diagnostic and treatment programs . the resulting economies of scale have allowed suppliers to shift from low levels of volume , high-margin solutions to higher-level employment , lower-margin profit models . as a result , such efforts have reduced annual hiv costs from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to under $ 100 in 2016 . by forecasting remedies , medication needs aggregating orders , and promoting competition , in combination with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers have been able to secure market efficiencies . for example , it would have been useful for programs to track how many high-blood pressure people were diagnosed and placed on treatment , what the share of those on treatment achieved blood-control , and what level of treatment required to lower premature deaths through desired targets .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what is killing a person is part of an epidemic . the global consensus , reflected in the un ’s report , calls for more exceptions , in order to ensure that , say , drugs can be made available in any case where to do so could save lives . in its bilateral trade treaties , however , america claims what is becoming known as “ trips plus ” that would strengthen intellectual property rights further , ensuring that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergency situations . bilateral agreements form the bedrock of enhanced friendship ties among countries . just before the last year ’s trade talks in cancun , the us had made some concessions to ensure that it was no longer the only holdout .
as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether the revival in america is real . meanwhile , the pace of chinese spending growth will not change dramatically . without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export-led growth would expose the chinese economy to the risks of overheating . and if its exports grow more rapidly , they can let the renminbi rise . if it is , then , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly .
when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , debates with nongovernmental counterparts of countries or policy work have been discouraged . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad set of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral part of effective country advice and program implementation , as well as being vital to the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function under its articles of agreement . a similar pivot is urgently needed if the imf is to deliver better on a supra-national issue that is now migrating to its policy agenda . the situation today is very different , and the situation is very different . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad set of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral part of effective country advice and program implementation , as is vital to the fund ’s “ supervision ” function under its articles of agreement .
leila zerrougui , the special representative for the un secretary-general for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of school children from school a “ trigger breach ” for naming terrorist organizations at the un ’s annual report to the un security council . this has meant funding school guards , fortifications , and surveillance equipment to reassure parents and pupils that all possible to keep them out of school is safe to attend . once again , slow to mount a response , the world is acting now . thirty countries recently signed on to lucens or safe school guidelines that instruct their military organs to prevent schools from being used as instruments of war . and , thanks to the un ’s children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global business coalition to protect education from attack , a global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools .
as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more domestic demand growth – via delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of this agenda , hoping that a quarter of all good gdp data are making a positive trend . the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape than the periphery : bond vigilantes might not woken up in france ; rather , economic performance has been anemic at best , fueled mainly by a mini housing boom . this is why greece is insolvent and coercive restructuring of its sovereign debt becomes unavoidable . but europe ’s two largest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of that agenda , hoping that one-fifth of good gdp data makes a trend .
it is time for france to abandon its indulgence of french exceptionalism ( the “ l’exception francaise ) and initiate a serious reform process involving the french electorate . ” jospin and chirac did whatever it takes to implement a massive liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , meaning that the benefits of trade liberalization are denied france at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all kinds of constraints on the french way of doing business . europeans used to think of the french political class as a solution . but europe and europe could increasingly be catalysts for public resentment . shame over le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular fears and address the country ’s problems .
the modern version of this explanation holds that the world is shifting so rapidly that national security and , indeed , national identity are under threat . modern economic growth still depends on nearly every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) . an alternative scenario suggests that such fears are emanating from a real problem . people in places like france and poland , worried about national decline , are seeking to blame for somebody outside the eu . there was certainly much of this kind of sentiment in the 1930 ’s , when the populist reaction to the great depression attributed it to sinister “ international capital ” forces .
his next name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name but a reflection of practices in terms of naming a person as his eldest son . calling for national elections , while politically correct , was political suicide , for he lacked any notion of a possible outcome and done very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . calling for national elections , while politically correct , was political suicide , for he lacked any notion of a potential outcome and done very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . abbas ’s son , mazen , runs a local advertising agency . his other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name but a reflection of the practice of naming a person as his eldest son .
new york – for four decades , the ledra street in the heart of nicosia has been a symbol of divided cyprus . last week , i visited a ledra street crossing the coast of sierra leone . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that partitioned capital to the north and south was opened . it was a window on what the future could bring . slowly , those who had not been mingled for 44 years began to renew their ties and rediscover one another .
for example , momentum could expand southward and spur asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , to join the group . such a turn of events would be tantamount to establishing the east asian free-trade area , which asean +3 envisioned ten years ago . but if the proposals discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta within its level of regional integration and significance to the global economy . moreover , the formation of a china-japan-south korean fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . should this occur , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to jump on the bandwagon .
as a result , adherence to tb drug treatments is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant rise ( mdr ) tb , which can no longer afford to receive conventional therapeutic regimes . some 50 million people are infected with the tubercle bacilli that is mdr . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with a treatment time of roughly two years , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor benign as canonical drugs – and at a cost that adds to a factor of ten to 100 . some 50 million people are infected with the tubercle bacilli that is mdr . as a result , adherence to tb drug treatments are particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant forms ( mdr ) tb , which can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes .
of course , market forces play a role as well , but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign finance system and its revolving door between government and industry , politics is being shaped by money . but rising inequality is not inevitable ; on the contrary , rising inequality is not inevitable . there are market economies that are doing better , both with respect to gdp growth and rising standards of living for the majority of citizens . for example , a bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives above all else , but does not permit student debt discharge , regardless of the inadequacy of the education offered , enriches the bankers and impoverishes many at the bottom . in a country with ground-trumpian money , such legislation has become predictably frequent .
with so few presidential candidates recognizing the connection between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces serious risks . a progressive redistributive agenda might continue to advance , or a conservative entitlement-reform agenda might fail . us senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton , a democratic rival , actually proposes to expand us programs ’ unfunded liabilities . on the contrary , former us secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton , together with a prominent republican contender , donald trump , have opposed reform of social security and medicare . either way , america would face growth-constraining tax hikes and limits on the contributions that public investment can make to the country ’s future .
this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party under wolfgang schuessel did not do . but , in all of these countries , the political discourse of all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives voted out of their own party ’s local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s deputies . austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . confronted with the election result of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they produced a faustian bargain with haider ’s party . there may well be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was not appealing to schuessel ’s party ( for one , he would not be a chancellor in such a coalition ) .
but even a massive spending program like the $ 900 billion american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 would add only about three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . the congressional budget office projects that even with no further legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio would rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion in the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by the tax reform would be to raise that to 97 % . the congressional budget office projects that even with no further legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio would rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . a military emergency , or an economic downturn , would invite additional debt-financed spending or tax cuts .
and us president barack obama has congratulated ouattara , stating that the world will be compelled to hold those that act to thwart the democratic process and the electorate ’s will be held accountable for its actions . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) has strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire , and appeals to all stakeholders to embrace the results announced by the electoral commission . ” likewise , the african union has responded promptly . its peace and security council resolutions met and expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to establish a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan challenged all parties to “ respect ” and fully implement the verdict of an ivorian majority as announced by an independent national electoral commission .
indeed , the bitter legacy of us invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the financial crisis of 2008 , made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even as “ red lines ” cross , but also seemingly reluctant to shoulder any serious burden in order to maintain its global leadership position . america ’s vacillating on policy toward syria surely hints so . but , if america is no longer willing to take the lead ? seoul has the world into a new era of chaos ? china ’s leaders demonstrated their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly denouncing calls for becoming a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system .
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the country ’s current light-vehicle fuel demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s ’s energy giant , as well as one of latin american companies – expects that share to rise to over 80 % by 2020 . a massive stimulus package prompted by the 1970 ’s by rising oil prices gave way to entirely new industries . but it would not work without a critical role that has been played by competition . brazil has been attempting to become energy self-sufficient in a manner similar to modern efforts by other countries . our research shows that industrial policies have been successful in promoting competitive bioethanol industries in brazil .
“ the child ’s creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” “ states one ilo report , ” and his entire mental world are impoverished . the ilo contends that children suffer enormously when they are forced to perform as “ small adults . ” sadly , families are often the latest to protest exploitation of their children . pakistani parents occasionally maim their children to make them beguiling beggars . “ the child ’s creativeness and the ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” states one ilo report , “ and his entire mental world are impoverished . ”
japan alone has foreign-exchange reserves of about $ 750 billion , much of it in america ’s us treasury bills . but , despite its riches and military might , america ’s ability to project political power – for good or ill – will decline in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . as a result of bush ’s tax cuts and military spending , which added $ 500 billion a year to budget deficits , america will need to raise taxes and limit budget spending , whether or not bush is reelected . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities into the us . as a result of bush ’s tax cuts and military spending that added $ 500 billion a year to the budget deficit , america will have to raise taxes and restrain budget spending , whether or not bush is reelected .
in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad attempted to introduce a “ golden gold dinar ” as an answer to the us-china currency system . so far , although there have been no globally devastating monetary attacks outside the sphere of cinematic fantasy . the most appealing alternative appears to have been gold itself . to be sure , there have long been political efforts to undermine or even replace the dollar as the dominant global currency . russia ’s theorists of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography .
to be sure , a single short seller can not “ make ” an asset price ( unless he is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him the billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a bunch of speculators decide ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government ’s ’s debt is overpriced , they can force down its price , thus forcing up its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . voilà – the successful “ brexit ” trade . if the attack persists , speculators may compel a government to default on its debt unless it can find a way to finance its borrowing more cheaply . my gain for correctly assuming that bearish view is € 1.65 per cent m – the € 9.1 m that i received by selling its bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay to repurchase on june 30 minus € 250,000 in interest that i had to pay goldman sachs for a six-month loan .
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the us government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed . the slowdown in chinese economic growth this year was due almost entirely to deliberate decisions to deleverage the banking system , slashed local governments ’ borrowing binge , reduced over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed . clear statements from policymakers , all the way forward for xi , signaled that china would refrain from authorizing a further deterioration in the us economy next year , even if that means accepting larger budget deficits or easing the easing of bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to enable the creation of global supply chains . that was the age of rural blacksmith , weaver , potter , and cobbler . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . african slaves were used to grow cotton in the southern united states , which was then shipped to english mills . the finished cloth subsequently exported to the outside world .
is it to be “ always represented ” by the lone political party ? i do not know what “ the progressive direction of advanced culture ” is , but advanced culture has played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out poisonous weeds campaign , ” “ anti-rightist movements , ” or “ eliminated the demons and wicked heresy campaign . ” such obscurantism merely creates a culture of stultifying uniformity . like a grass-roots blade , culture knows how , and in which direction , to search for light . it does not have to be “ represented . ”
indeed , the price of homophobia for gays in many african countries has been painstakingly obvious : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice . such official attitudes have resulted in significant suffering for africa ’s gays and lesbos . in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president , was among the first to do just that . uganda ’s president , yoweri museveni , followed suit when signing an anti-gay bill into legislation in 2014 . other leaders , from the gambia to ’s president , yahya jammeh to zimbabwe , robert mugabe , spoke out in the same vein .
perhaps more important , they have an insufficient voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . that underscores a key concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . still , china ’s share , at around 30 % , appears to be the largest of the world ’s 57 participating countries , potentially giving it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decisions . china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries lack inadequate access to capital for infrastructure . will it turn out to be the imf , brazil , and china , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda with respect to the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and africa ’s development bank ( afdb ) ?
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s then-chief economist , olivier blanchard fueled much of the controversy by pointing out that in recent months , governments have tended to underestimate the adverse growth effects of fiscal consolidation . until the 1980 ’s , it was routinely assumed that the so-called “ multiplier ” multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp change to changes in government spending – was stable and bigger than one . contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists actually know a lot about the effects of fiscal policy , at least significantly more than they had been deployed to know . they typically predicted that cutting public spending by the us dollar would lower gdp by 50 cents in the short run ; according to blanchard , the true result in current conditions is a decline of around $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a huge gap , but also a confusing finding : how can there be so much uncertainty ?
for too long , city dwellers have been used as pawns on the global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full consequences of playing the game . but , because the public is educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities where they live , this stance will become increasingly difficult to sustain . at the same time , people worldwide must cease to be compared to one another as an untrusted enemy . military planners considering using nuclear weapons probably gave scant thought to those living in cities on their target lists . making matters worse , there have been suggestions for their actual use .
and the massive prosperity gap between the “ old ” and the “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns . these groups have been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given the majority of europeans who are unconvinced that the worst is over . moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken on the rise of public frustration with the eu itself . many europeans oppose the idea of a greater europe , ” ” ” ” the eu ’s mantra in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats . the influence of the widening disparities among the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” with france at the center ( but headed by the south ) , has also been apparent .
not gold powder , as lesser moguls might offer , or even the purest of cocaine . today , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that only 25,000 still live roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya . a half-century ago , white rhinos abounded in africa . these days , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that just 25,000 still live the continent , mostly in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya . they raise their glasses , filled with the finest scotch sprinkled by fine powder .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . the world needs to unite behind a holistic drive to discredit an ideology that confers on extremists ’ power and brings back the hope and dignity of those whom they would recruit . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent for our own security , as is evident in the current struggle to defeat isis . isis surely can – and will – – – – – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is now assembling , and that the uae is actively supporting it . if we are to prevent isis from teaching this lesson the hard way , we must recognize that it is impossible to defuse the fires of fanaticism by force alone .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on information ’s `` asymmetry . '' we showed that the notion was ill-founded : even small information imperfections can have profound effects on how the economy behaved . for two hundred years , economists were using simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – i.e. , all participants had equal and transparent knowledge of relevant factors . what is this work about , and why did we commit to it ? we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small information imperfections could have profound effects on how the economy behaved .
it certainly did not serve homeownership of homeowners , workers who lost out their jobs , pensioners who saw their retirement funds out-lay , or taxpayers who bailed out the hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . never before had so many money gone from so few to so few . bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) did not lead to community well-being ; nor did it serve their shareholders and bondholders well . we are used to think of governments transferring money from the well off to the poor . under the threat of the whole system , the safety net – intended to help unfortunate individuals meet lifeencies – expanded generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan companies .
what matters here is that the constitution demands a super-majority – rather than , say , an easily irreversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine ’s parliament , adopted in 2010 , must be permitted to “ chart its own path . ” that approach would follow the principle that us president barack obama highlighted when announcing last month ’s latest round of sanctions against russia , that ukraine must be allowed to “ chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – divided among inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . the practical result – ukraine ’s remaining unaligned in its military and security terms – would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole . to be sure , ukraine ’s location may change in the future , with its cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus to abandon neutrality .
in any viable long-term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ones mainly ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need . in coming years , the most important fiscal task facing east european countries and the nis government will be to reduce the size of social spending to a more reasonable proportion of gdp . the public should understand the critical distinction between a one-time transfer to the old workers at the onset of market reform and a long run on pension policy . political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will need to shift the public ’s attention to the looming fiscal crisis . in institutional terms , long-term reform should aim to shift to a pension system based on individual savings accounts , as in chile , against the status quo , pay-as-you-go pension systems .
but that may well follow the second phase in which tight-knit labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration are starting to compensate for the one-time structural effects of new technologies becoming widely adopted . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty regarding the timing of such a scenario . focusing too narrowly on a cyclical rather than a structural order might carry serious risks to future economic well-being and financial stability . but , either way , policymakers in advanced economies need to recognize that their inflation-targeting outlook is subject to a wider range of dynamic possibilities than they have been considering so far . and , on a third stage , the potential onset of higher inflation may catch up to policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive effects that make the wrong situation worse .
a fifth step should be to integrate women into full and equally across all parts of the un ’s agenda , and not only in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ’s ” issues . a fifth step should be to integrate women into full and equally into all parts of the un ’s agenda , and not only in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ” issues . the un ’s romanians fold agendas – peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism – must be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , stand-alone institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be deployed in a field to crack down on appropriate challenges . groups would operate under a shared mandate across all un agencies and engage with un operations in each country .
with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in a recent survey from 2011 , india is home to some of the planet ’s largest absolute number of impoverished people . every year , each is on average 38 cents per day below the extreme poverty line . for india , the cost adds up to nearly $ 11 billion of exchange-rate transactions . in the drc , 77 % of the population is extraordinarily poor and falling the dollar short of its poverty line , on average . the most expensive countries where to end extreme poverty would be the democratic republic of congo and nigeria .
more fiscal space can be crafted by better governance and strengthening the fiscal base and , for the poorest countries , through additional stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . indeed , when oda is not dictated by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive impact on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to spur short-termism toward economic policies that restrict long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital . in recent decades , however , macroeconomic policies in most developing countries have become more pro-cyclical , exacerbated in large part by the volatility of international financial markets and commodity prices . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than markets and guaranteeing property rights .
the “ white lady ” is seducing a steadily rising number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only make matters worse . european leaders need serious about europe ’s ’s ’s ’s cocaine problem . but now calls for cocaine in much of the world are stable or falling . coca cultivation has been slashed by more than a quarter in the last five years , and cocaine seizures nearly doubled . cocaine used to be an american problem , to the point that the united states has launched a major campaign against the sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in its internal cities , drug traffickers , and andes suppliers .
berkeley – it has been just one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , with america ’s democratic institutions clearly under strain . simply put , among congressional republicans , “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism undermines the federal government ’s ’s ’s action capacity , which is precisely what many on the far right want . simply put , 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in the us congress has fallen to less than 9 % . according to some pessimists , america ’s constitution was not designed to address a country ’s challenges so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship . yet state and local governments continue to trust the majority of voters , with power , under the tenth amendment , america ’s constitution ’s tenth amendment to strengthen democratic institutions .
by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner at the same time that the eu is trying to isolate him as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked . the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to do business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward , and near lunatic despot . similar examples of such uninterested cynicism abound . by treating lukashenka as a favored commercial partner simultaneously , the eu is trying to isolate germany as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s ’s police forces , customs services , and even the bundeswehr have been ordering uniforms off a state-owned factory in the port city of abidzzinsky , named after the father of the red terror and the soviet kgb ’s founder , feliks dzherzinsky .
at the same time , the european central bank has unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , which has pulled the european banking system back from the brink . bond yields in southern europe have been soaring , as well as a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear of cloaked governments in european capitals . at the same time , the european central bank has unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) of long-term refinancing operations that pulled the european banking system back from the brink . at the same time , the european central bank has unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , which has pulled the european banking system back from the brink . finally , in december , decisive action was taken .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s novo mercado – the sharing exchanges over ’s special voluntary listing segment that grant strong protections to investors in newly listed companies – supports this view . their single recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms off exchanges . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their regulations . but stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil . their one recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms to comply with exchanges .
new york – january is traditionally a time for assessing last year ’s evolution to anticipate what the new one has in store . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
and translating comprehensive universities into the specialized institutes of science and technology in the soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert an economic calamity in those economies . to be sure , the proliferation of highly specialized universities in europe has failed to buttress economic growth or employment . but this scenario is highly unlikely , at least for the foreseeable future . in theory , the simultaneous shift in multiple countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher levels of education – with large concomitant productivity gains – could lower the competitiveness of an economy that has made no such effort . but this scenario is highly unlikely , to say the least .
reform does not require a state of emergency , as is often argued . second , a government change via elections has prompted reforms , giving them democratic legitimacy . without a deep crisis , no major reform was likely . third , reform requires a strong leader . first , all were precipitated by a profound social-welfare crisis : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , inflation , and devaluation .
but , rather than deploy their plentiful cash in new investment to expand capacity and tap new markets , – which they have been very hesitant to fulfill since the global financial crisis erupted last year – many companies have so far favored ( or were pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to shareholders . indeed , with profitability at or near record levels – the corporate sector ’s cash holdings in the united states piled up more than a quarter after a quarter – reaching all-time highs – earning very little at present today ’s near-zero interest rates . nonetheless , rather than deploy their plentiful cash in new investment to expand capacity and tap new markets , which they have been very hesitant to fulfill since the global financial crisis erupted , many companies have so far favored ( or has been pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to shareholders . furthermore , because firms have greatly improved their operating effectiveness and lengthened maturities on their debt , they need many less precautionary savings than they did in the past . non-financial firms have achieved a mix of resilience and agility that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide that still confront adequately a legacy of over-leverage .
the same goes for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing importance to the middle east and energy politics , nato membership , european union membership bid , and ties to its ethnic cousins throughout central asia . from an american perspective , indonesia presents an attractive alternative to russia , which recently vied with venezuela for its leadership of “ america in decline ” cheering partition . perhaps the most compelling case for all is that of indonesia , the world ’s ’s ’s largest muslim state , with its rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy mired in a star performer in asia , despite a global recession . indonesia , moreover , has shown its resilience not only economically . purely from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose primary liability is the danger that the regime of its evil twin to the north will collapse and inundate it with hungry refugees .
no state that aspires to win others ’ support or cooperation can afford to be seen as comfortable with an unambiguous double standard . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever become legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , diminishing rather than augmenting , human suffering and cracking down on any major powers to protect a suffering minority would surely trigger a much broader conflagration . the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place a high emphasis on promoting values are exceptionally vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because the five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their inherent military strength . and , worst of all , it should be perceived as being soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , commit massachusetts atrocity crimes against its own citizens .
the last thing cambodia needs , too , is to risk economic reprisal for aiding chinese firms to dodge american tariffs . this might be good news for a corrupt few , but it is bad for cambodia . already , the country ’s worsening record on democracy and human rights threatens its tariff-free access to european markets , provided through the bloc ’s “ anything but arms ” commercial regime . the ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there has been fined by america reinforces the suspicion that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . yet that appears to be precisely what hun sen ’s government intends to do .
if the actions agreed by the leaders assembled by the g20 in november are implemented , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income . to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . the global economy risks becoming stuck in a “ new mediocre ” – a protracted period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . more than 200 million people are unemployed , and more than 10 million live in poverty . some important economies continue to struggle with deflation .
the albright report attempts to address these questions similarly . it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between “ outside of region operations ” and nato members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . what type of relations should nato have with its partners ? it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between “ outside of region operations ” and nato members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense , under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . should it pursue further simultaneous transformations and eu enlargement ?
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been smart and delusional . northern koreans violated their agreements , knowing that china – a country with the greatest potential leverage – is most worried about regime collapse in north korea and thus the threat of chaos on its border . it is a mistake , however , to believe that extended deterrence depends on numbers of nuclear weapons . japan has officially endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world , but it relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid being subjected to nuclear blackmail by north korea ( or china ) . japan is concerned that its credibility on american extended deterrence will be weakened if america decreases its nuclear strength to parity with china .
the first school of thought , broadly that of the united states ’ republican party , was that financial regulation was wrong , because all regulation was bad . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why did n’t it then ? berkeley , back in the late 1990 ’s , in america , at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , to repealing the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and stimulating more aggressive production and use of derivatives . the second , broadly speaking , of the democratic party , was rather complicated by four observation : · in the global economy ’s industrial core , to say the least , two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , to repel the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and spur more aggressive creation and exploitation of derivatives .
concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to liberals ; of course , it should not alienate moderate voters either because more equality would do well for the entire economy . it is about giving even more money to the very few . it is grotesque that so many of those who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still being persuaded to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , everyone else is losing out . and it might even persuade some exasperated , poor trump ’s supporters to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not about aiding the left-behind folks in the rust belt and rural hinterlands .
but neither wants to be a “ chicken of chicken , ” ” because that would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other side . likewise , trump has thought that he can bully iran by abandoning a joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . like the clock ticks ’ clock ticks down , the wrong outcome becomes all the more likely . but iranians have reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford the full-scale war and the oil-price spike that would ensue . still , with no deal by year ’s end , a clash will become likely .
in the past two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , coptic communities have starkly reflected a change in attitude : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from the us , not from you . ” as a result , there is a growing belief within the scaf that its three “ minimum ” demands have become both unnecessary and insufficient . political polarization , sectarian incidents , weak economics , and a lack of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . but the scaf now seems to have realized that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attack by its rivals . moreover , the scaf have carefully weighed down politicians and dissected their relative weaknesses , limited capacity , notorious opportunism , and widespread inconsistency .
by the end of the decade , america will need to pay the amount equivalent of more than one-third of personal-income tax revenues just to pay interest on the national debt . higher debt-service costs require higher marginal tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and reduces economic growth . that requires a weaker dollar to make american goods more attractive to foreign buyers and make foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . meanwhile , foreign investors now hold more than half of this level of indebtedness . paying interest to them requires sending more goods and services to the outside world than americans receive from the rest of the world .
iran is also a key player in cooling hot spots in the caucasus and central asia . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it will have to cope with a regime discredited by election fraud , but still indispensable to resolving almost all of the middle east ’s major problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflict in afghanistan , pakistan , iraq , lebanon , and palestine . indeed , aside from matters of domestic politics and the question of internal freedom , the choice between the big candidates hinges on the question of whether iran should seek greater international integration . a policy of re-opening the country would thus quickly put the regime ’s existence at risk . iran is also a key player in cooling hot spots in the caucasus and central asia .
perhaps the most visible gains have been on the external front . since 1996 , annual per capita economic growth in 1996 has averaged well below 1.5 % , and overall factor productivity has stagnated or declined . but where it counts – in overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment . exports have jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and gdp ’s share of inward foreign direct investment has tripled . if ever there were a country that was destined to be the poster child of the new economic-growth orthodoxy , it was mexico .
after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever greater share of global output ( now around two-thirds ) , and further expansion requires major changes in existing agreements . and a bilateral or regional trade deal can chip away at some of the barriers in the current global system . a key problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade has been continually developed , with existing agreements having only limited adjustment capacity . even if asia has succeeded in relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , mainly in africa , can realistically export their exports and textiles .
for many years , researchers believed that these signals traveled along a few well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brain known as the thalamus . she reminds physicians that for a person suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness over all others involved was a powerful negative emotion . a contemporary non-medical writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantiness , the ability to annihilate complex thoughts and other sensations , the power to destroy language , and intense opposition to objectification . from there , researchers believed , signals went on to the part of the brain ’s cortex that had managed body awareness , and somehow the cortex had turned them into conscious experiences . a contemporary non-medical writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantiness , the ability to annihilate complex thoughts and other sensations , the ability to destroy language , and strong opposition to objectification .
according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was a key event setting in motion a development process that would ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movement as a global norm . the first stop came from the european union in the late 1980 ’s , where two french socialists , jacques delors , and pascal lamy ( the european commission ’s president and his assistant , respectively ) , led the way . then came the turn of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abate his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists carried out an abrupt volte-face and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another frenchman who served as france ’s governor under mitterrand .
de gaulle ’s defeat of the army ’s revolt was the first time that paris ’s republican authority was asserted over the pieds noirs who helped bring down the fourth republic . de gaulle ’s defeat of the army ’s revolt was the first time that paris ’s republican authority had been asserted over pieds noirs who helped bring down the fourth republic . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – aided , it must be said , by rebel-controlled insurgents – established the primacy of the nation-state . the next day , de gaulle ’s ’s face was drawn , but it was resolute and full of energy . de gaulle ’s men at the barricades were persuaded to leave their stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or fled to spain .
did the israelis really want a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , the potential breakdown of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of the recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal court on charges of war crimes ? israel appears to be making the same mistake that others have made . if not , why are it so ham-fisted ? it has been proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilians does not crack down on their morale and turn them against their own leaders , however terrible the regime . palestine ’s diplomatic promotion has offered its lifeline .
fourth , the war in afghanistan not only proceeded quickly on earth , but has resulted in a diplomatic breakthrough as well . the un ’s growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy above the global struggle against terrorism and is helping to reassure many countries that this is a genuine international effort , not simply america acts alone . while these seem to be a grab-bag of achievements , they point to a single message : the world community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession . the un will play a central role in reforming the working government in that country , as well as in coordinating humanitarian aid to the afghan people . the growing role of international institutions under the un umbrella provides greater trust that disputes can be tackled peacefully and even sensibly , with major inputs of scientific expertise as the treaty on climate change .
here , brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the coldness of the electoral landscape is intimately linked to a single reality : “ irrelevance ” in politics , owing to its “ financiarisation ” in the face of its “ financiarisation . ” aside from barely practical political rhetoric from leaders such as hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new to offer in the global electoral marketplace that differs very much from what is usually labeled as neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there is no longer a contest between various projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with its nuances ) that might raise voters ’ emotions . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming elections this year are like an soccer match between large teams , where supporters of one candidate and another solely distinguish between the shirts ’ colors , given that the strongest teams accept the rules of the game , and
violence against journalists has historically been an issue that has been left behind by headlines . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ staff members , freelancers , and audiences , such organizations should report on the topic . if journalists are using their platforms to inform the world about the dangers they and their peers are facing , the world will need to listen . but the most critical changes must come from within the media industries themselves . with attacks on the press rising , the old approach – prideful silence – no longer makes sense .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders reach the millennium development goals ( mdg ’s ) of cutting back the world ’s share ’s poor to half its 1990 level – five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes underscore the enduring threat of poverty worldwide . after all , poverty is not an unchanging attribute of a fixed group ; it is a condition that threatens billions of vulnerable populations . but the world bank ’s $ 1.25 a day poverty line ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , used to measure progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal , is not the only relevant threshold . despite its flaws , income measures of income are useful in regaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide .
while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of public debt ; loss of competitiveness and a slowdown in unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does n’t help ) ; and exceptionally tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effect on productivity growth in years of underinvestment in human and physical capital . and an abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending under control . the 2014 outlook is dampened with longer-term constraints as well . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will materialize too slowly .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain part of the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is only about € 23 billion . but , at the same time , such figures must be placed within the eu ’s gloomy overall energy picture – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do . the sheer magnitude of cyprus ’s likely energy riches , and the financing needed to develop it dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . but realizing this value is a long-term proposition . more immediately , to get its gas to the market in europe and elsewhere , the gas liquefaction plant costing some € 10 billion needs to be built , and israeli investors have already voiced interest .
syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for its country ’s woes . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity is reflected in germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline , not their country ’s profligacy . thus , most tv channels speak of a bailout deal just as tsipras does : as the proximate cause of austerity , a result of neoliberal dogma . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige . new democracy and pasok are doing much of the same , invading the eu , “ speculators , ” and hedge funds – anyone who might divert the public ’s attention from their own responsibility to the crisis .
lebanon is far too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see their local clients ease the israelis ’ burdens of the “ lebanese front ” before their own grievances are addressed . after all , it has been minuscule , qatar , which brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlements , egypt that has mediated a cease-fire on gaza , with turkey facilitating the israeli-syrian talks . but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match the region ’s influence over the region ’s ’s ’s “ axis of evil . ” israel ’s ’s ’s shift in policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a potent message to the americans that they should not miss an lebanese train as it does . nor is hezbollah keen to view israel ’s end as an end to israel ’s farm occupation on lebanon ’s border undermined its claim to the formidable independence military power that it erected with iranian and syrian help .
finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making up for below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing for above-target inflation during expansionary periods . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed might remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 . but with clarida input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflation trends , rather than on official unemployment rates and its implications under traditional models . and , though the review remains on its early stage , the fed already seems to have embraced the notion that allowing inflation to continue to rise far beyond 2 % , without immediately triggering tightening . moreover , while the fed ’s staff members tend to believe that america ’s economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s potential rate of potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , appears open to the notion that trump ’s tax cuts and de-regulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will allow for somewhat stronger non-inflationary growth .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will cover the cost of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool off plant ’s ’s reactors ; protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zones ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by rubles global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the cost of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . all of these hidden costs are making the price of nuclear energy higher than the price of shifting to renewable energies and improving energy efficiency . on top of this , there is the possible cost of health-care costs stemming from exposure to radioactivity . it is governments , and therefore to taxpayers and bondholders alike , that are financing nuclear plants . moreover , the purported “ cost-saving ” of nuclear power never incorporates the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , decommissioning of aging facilities , and emergency clean-up , and remediation of impacted communities when catastrophes occur , all again at taxpayer expense .
like a pragmatic matter , this would also backfire , by passing the trump camp yet another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” that , in turn , would run counter to what universities stand for . the most important principle to uphold is the distinction between hearing and honing one ’s own . otherwise , they would seem to be stifling debate . but clear rules of engagement are essential .
there was good news in this summit : europe ’s leaders finally came to understand that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to its banks to rescue their sovereigns , and to its sovereigns to rescue the banks will not work . likewise , they are now recognizing that bailout loans that give new lender seniority over other creditors aggravate private investors ’ positions , who will simply demand even higher interest rates . new york – like the eu on the death row – received another last-minute stay of execution . it will survive a little more than a little more than a few years later . markets celebrate , as they have after each of europe ’s four earlier crisis ” summits come to light , until they come to understand that the underlying problems have been addressed so far .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” ( omt ) program . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to purchase , if needed , an unlimited number of troubled eurozone countries ’ sovereign bonds , provided the affected countries subscribe to the european court of justice ’s rules , the european stability mechanism ( esm ) . but , rather than issuing the formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it may have done , the court has asked the european court of justice for its opinions . the court has now declared that it has fully endorses prosecutors ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary law . thousands of germans have appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty ’s functioning , which bars monetary financing of eurozone governments and imposes substantial risk on germany ’s citizens as taxpayers .
and capital-gains taxes have declined by more than 50 % since the 1980s . to build public investment support in higher-risk innovations , perhaps taxpayers should get a more direct return , by channeling profits into the public-innovation fund to financing future waves of technology . but other cases might require creating alternative incentives . for example , some of the government ’s profits from tesla ’s investment program could have recovered via shares ( or royalty payments ) and used to cover losses from its investment in solyndra . when upstream investment comes into play , spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes yield large societal rewards .
obviously , with interest rates at the zero lower bound , more monetary/fiscal-policy coordination is a need . complicating matters further , by 2020 the european commission and the council of europe will each have a new president and leadership teams of its own , with the european parliament listing a new generation of politicians who have not engaged in past decades of compromises and reform . if the ecb ’s next leaders fail to come together , the euro on its own would be at risk . on the contrary , germany would vote in a political environment of rage , diminished trust , and intra-european fragmentation . still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability .
all told , we should recall earlier accusations by russia of a role in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia . in the us , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed for want of effective leadership ; indeed , traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand . in the us , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed for want of effective leadership ; indeed , traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand . facebook has estimated that russia ’s content on its web sites , including posts and paid ads , had reached 126 million americans , about 40 % of the nation ’s population . in reality , these regimes began to wield social media for their own ends .
it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei , too , regrets permitting volunteers of the basij militia to launch attacks on the british consulate last november . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s financial and political support to win the presidency . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful to this choice . ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , attempts to discredit it with the public by challenging his authority and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and the parliament . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful to this choice .
but it is not at all clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interests . and it is not only the developing and emerging countries that need to rethink their approach to the world . the us , for its part , needs to do just that . the bottom line is not to single out china . similar questions exist in india and brazil .
but i do not see what alternative political-economic arrangements might make individuals ’ relative wealth closely aligned with their relative moral or other merit . some people work harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or are simply fortunate enough to be in the right place at a time . nor should we worry about the great deal that some people are becoming richer than others . the problems that may be being addressed are those of poverty and social insurance — of which provides a safety net — not of inequality . but on the level of individual societies , i am convinced that inequality tends to loom as a serious political-economic problem .
there is also some friction among america ’s various regulators , and we surely need more coordination across national boundaries – including with europe . this needs to be done as a kind of technological matter , rather than a part of the political process . not everyone at the sec is as reasonable as stein . but the real danger now is that powerful lobbies , working through congressional members , press back hard against the fsoc and its mandate . more broadly , however , her perspective is that the us needs the fsoc to do its job – to look for and assess all forms of potential systemic risk .
iohannis may have benefited , to some degree , from an association of voters ’ mindsets with german hohenzollern kings who had ruled romania wisely and with dedication to more than 80 years . when the results were announced , their euphoria had been overwhelmingly overwhelming . the final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was a younger generation , in which connections with the western world have imbued an eagerness to see true democratic progress in romania . and , indeed , upon learning from his victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to king michael i ( hohenzollern ) . in bucharest , university campuses recalled the energy of 1989 ; it was the sound of an awakened electorate , mindful of its previous mistakes , and ready for a fresh start .
for most , the curriculum is mostly obsolete , and skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of basic analytical and critical-thinking skill sets . whereas tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate abilities , the country ’s higher-level college-level system of higher levels of educational attainment does reduce its talents . whereas tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate abilities , the country ’s higher-level upper-secondary education system does an abysmal job cultivating its talents . education in the social sciences and humanities is especially deficient , owing to a lack of investment in these disciplines and excessive political control over curricula . for most , the curriculum is mostly obsolete , and skewed toward rote learning at the expense of basic analytical and critical-thinking skills .
such reforms will generate new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . at long last , global economic conditions will compel even greater restructuring upon japan . japan has committed itself to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . while export expansion delivered growth over the course of this century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will fuel productivity gains elsewhere in japan . imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
egalitarian development of this sort is the only viable answer to the moslem world ’s mal-development challenges . my belief is that the west can learn much about what to study policies pursued in the world ’s only two mid-level development moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each has successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . but it offers no short-term answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it fails to supply an ideology compelling enough to compete against fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in a moslem world . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy , given its proximity to the violence-prone algeria . both countries combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job-creation ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive export ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development .
halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( consumer-price index ) – which excludes food and energy – has headed down just when it was supposed to go . in may , america ’s so-called core cpi ( consumer-price index ) – which excludes food and energy – has headed down just when it was intended . for the american economy , which is widely believed to be nearing the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as an increasingly glaring awakening – particularly for the us federal reserve , which has pulled out all the stops to recover from inflation to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story persists in japan .
as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for more than 60 % of global gdp . nonetheless , following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions have been reasserted . at the same time , our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and the west should be rethought . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of an indian democratic dialogue to the third-century bbc buddhist emperor adam ashoka . he has also contrasts religious tolerance preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar in the 1590 ’s with the eu , a tipping point in europe .
yet that sequence goes the opposite of what one might expect : only after financial markets developed did those with a stake in them press for better regulation of how to protect investors . britain and japan appear to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later . a core protective legal institution for outside finance , federal securities laws did not drop out until the 1930s – decades after american financial markets had grown to finance america ’s economic rise . britain and japan appear to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later . so , in britain , japan , and america , something more foundational had to take place before financial markets started operating .
in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption rather than investment . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . but , by 2007 , greece had been spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , the largest such gap in europe – more than twice that in spain and 55 % higher than ireland ’s . in spain and ireland , though , the gulf reflected a construction boom ; european accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages . insufficient spending was never an issue , either .
independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making to quasi-independent bodies when issues at hand are technical and arousing distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise yield suboptimal results for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia with heavy discounting for future costs . it may be up to elected politicians to determine the inflation target , but the means deployed to reach that target are left to technocrats at the central bank . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to policymakers , and they need to provide accounting when they miss the targets . true , the qualities of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by curtailing the discretionary powers of elected representatives .
first , it is important to recognize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not only the central bank ’s ’s ’s problem to correct . while the central bank does bear a good part of its responsibility , it needs support from other parts of its government , most notably the us finance ministry . maintaining competitive currencies requires a surge in domestic saving relative to investment , or a decline in national spending relative to income . this means that the fiscal authorities have a major responsibility : to target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for real exchange-rate depreciation . otherwise , the gains in competitiveness would offset rising inflation .
jolie has refused to treat mastectomy as scary or tragic – or , for that matter , making her “ woman ’s less ” woman ” in any sense . but the real significance of jolie ’s story lies in its context : waves of women and men worldwide , in very different settings around the world , insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , such as breast cancer – were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame . there is something about the narrative – the sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts for her children ’s sake , with her husband remaining by her side – that is deeply reassuring toward women in western culture . one can reasonably be certain , though , that jolie ’s decision changes the roles available to her as an actress . just as global mass media enthusiastically got her choice , it is nonetheless extraordinarily difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal , much less physically , flawed ” or “ impaired ” – as well as fantasies of sex .
it is this danger that sets the practical and political limit to flexible exchange rates . large net central-bank reserves can help to ease this process . some depreciation can be managed by a majority in the deficit countries ; but a vicious cycle could ensue if a domestic currency loses too much value too quickly . to avoid such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate must be administered – and , in a way , dependent on a country ’s particular circumstances , on its own . private-sector balance-sheet difficulties would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting public-debt pressures would compel austerity to constraining consumer demand – and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets .
the limits to freedom of speech are not simply legal . entertainment companies , or mass media , are highly sensitive to public opinion . but cancellation of barr ’s show was , to be sure , not a legal decision . free speech is more firmly defended by the rule of law in the us than anywhere else in the world . people are prone to firing , on commercial grounds , where something they said was offensive to a large number .
in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced an arab human development report , written in the name of the un ’s development program and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world lags behind other regions in key measures , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as economic and social development . this phenomenon has been starkly noted within the muslim world as well . not one has a muslim majority ; it is not one that has a muslim majority . alarming trends , such as the “ bulge ” combined with high youth unemployment -- reaching nearly 40 % in some places -- emphasize potentially explosive social conditions .
then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . in terms of security , europe remained dependent on the american people . institutionally , this division of labor appeared in nato and the eu , respectively . but , given the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their real influence . yet on both economic and technological fronts , europeans regained their sovereignty .
“ jews ” were not his foes more , he declared ; they were even working for him . “ jews ” were not his foes more , he declared ; they were even working for him . for the occasion , tudor wore yarmulke , referring to his “ philo-semitism ” for more than two hours . he announced his recruitment of eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his presidential campaign . but tudor did not stop with prolix apologies .
in kenya , for example , a prominent local newspaper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , has received suspicious payments from the national youth service . yet those with power know how to fight back , and are not pulling their punches . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is being compromised , repressed , and even dismantled . and independent investigative journalists in africa have often exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business dealings . the ngos ’ further investigations exposed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . china ’s economy has been successful through trial and error , and the lesson of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process to drive the next stage of economic reform . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( rather than the state ) to identify and promote unicorns . but , as the government determines how to offload its massive share holdings in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that such efforts are financed with equity , not leverage , thereby enhancing , market balance and resilience . nonetheless , china has already begun to build a more innovative manufacturing and internet-driven retail sector , and the state can still play a role in fostering innovation .
the recent assault on globovision , venezuela ’s only survivor of an independent channel , stands out in this respect . here , the absence of free media is particularly alarming , and it does not bode well for free and fair elections . strict adherence to constitutional provisions in any of these eventuality is imperative . it is crucial that the opposition can freely air its message and target its prospective voters – a point not lost on chávez ’s regime as it seeks to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to the electorate . its abrupt move on the heels of illness may produce a political vacuum that might become conducive to one form of power grab or another , like a military coup .
during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked at large , lumbering central banks as monetary cows , long on their money , and short on financial acumen . traders did not win every battle , of course . what a difference a decade makes . george soros was once composed of billions of dollars to the bank of england in just a hour . his fundamental strategy was the standard : betting against any central bank that tries to resist inconsistent macroeconomic policy .
in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely surpassed that it attained at the end of last year , and much of the increase was fueled by goods that were manufactured but not yet sold . yet , contrary to expectations , growth in household consumption has remained lackluster , and firms have not ramped up investment . the prevailing explanation – a brutally cold winter – is wearing so thin that everyone should be allowed to see through it . american consumers , for their part , remain scarred by the crisis , and are likely to follow suit . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , the sense of excitement over the future is absent , despite all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now surrounds them .
to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . regulatory reform is also needed to boost support for startup companies – an area where germany is notoriously weak , reflected in the difficulty such firms face in acquiring venture capital . nowhere is the need to overcome funding bottlenecks more evident than with germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) initiative . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband networks , up to international standards , will require major investments that an improved regulatory framework could help to spur momentum . while some of these funds will come from public budgets , the overwhelming majority will have to provide the private sector .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s ’s economy would overtake that of the us in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argue that china has actually overtaken the us in ppp terms in 2010 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income , using a set of international prices applied to all economies . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , the economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership will go to china in 2014 .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensibility and vulnerability . the us may become less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy ; but its oil turns out to be a fungible commodity ; and america ’s economy remains sensitive to shocks ranging from a sudden shift in world prices . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockage of the strait of hormuz , might still inflict harm on the us and its allies . but one should not jump to its conclusions . the balance of energy imports and exports is merely the first approximation of independence .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . but this does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery anytime soon . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the strong action taken to revitalize the global economy . that downturn is complex : an economic crisis , combined with a financial crisis . the bottom may be near , perhaps .
tackling the world ’s environmental and ecological problems , and improving the lot of those left behind , will require public action , such as the one that i have overseen in my roles at the world bank , the united nations , and britain . but when that competition is not managed responsibly , the reverse can occur – and , to a large extent , in many cases , it has . in seizing the opportunities of globalization , firms have often neglected developed-world workers whom they have been leaving behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation . in my own career , i saw firsthand that a trade-competition growth fueled in a globalizing world can do far more to combat poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs alone . but it would also demand that business participation be involved .
and , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite pitching remain against no deal . many leavers would view her as an anti-democratic coup . but she would be an incendiary move . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics would spur her disparate opponents into overcoming their differences in order to stem a no-deal brexit . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed from british politics .
the us has financed its own destruction , with no regard for the consequences . the us has financed its own destruction , with no regard for the consequences . to support such efforts , the us is urging un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint an ocean special representative , tasked with improving ocean governance , and ensuring that the full potential of sdg 14 is fully realized . such a representative must be given enough resources to do the job . the ocean has endured decades of abuse and neglect .
these groups were coping with a body blow two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which had abruptly withdrawn 86 % of india ’s ’s ’s ’s currency from circulation overnight . when crops failed , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing burden of debt ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . the bjp government ’s greatest neglect of agriculture was the country ’s smallholder and marginal farmers , along with landless farm labor . daily wage workers , traditionally paid in cash , lost their jobs to the millions , because an substitution currency did not print up in adequate quantities . that is the past year for which official data on farmer suicides are available , but news for media reports indicate that the numbers have grown since .
and there is one clear measure of how we perform at this task : extinction rates . for every one part of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , ten or perhaps even 100 other unknown species of animals , plant plants , or frees . bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity ’s massive and irreversible environmental impact . with six billion people and counting – and our individual consumption – we face enormous challenges in using our natural resources sustainably . for that reason , some colleagues and i calculated the rate at which bird species became extinct in recent history and rates at which they would likely become extinct in the future .
today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , the ceo of the digital power group . with systems growing in size and complexity , traditional computer architecture appears to be reaching its limits , because power consumption soars and transmission lag among components become increasingly burdensome . and , finally , – perhaps most important – they enable their users to perceive patterns and opportunities that would be impossible to rediscover through traditional means . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per energy unit on “ unstructured ” data – human brains performs roughly 10,000 times better than even the best man-made machinery . cognitive systems are inspired by human brains , an organ that still has a lot to educate us .
munich – debates are now underway to establish a system of joint deposit insurance for eurozone banks . whereas the share of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries remains at an average rate of just 2 % , the most recently released international monetary fund statistics , from last april , show a share of 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece . to address this risk mismatch , and move ahead with its plan , balance sheets will have to clean up before contemplating another step . while this argument may be correct , the critics emphasize the mismatch in risk , owing to the high proportion of bad loans on some countries ’ balance sheets . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , have pointed out that deposit insurance would avert a run on banks in times of crisis management .
until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to more efficient means than imprisonment for dealing with inconvenient opponents . this sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful stimulus – the victor takes all , loser goes to jail – for ruthlessness . until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to more efficient means rather than imprisonment for dealing with inconvenient opponents . this is setting a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – the victor take all , loser go to jail – for ruthlessness . in 2000 , for example , the journalist georgiy gongadze ’s journalist , was kidnapped and beheaded after online news about high-level government corruption .
undoubtedly , there is a strong case for a universal , impartial application of values . this virtuous circle continues to view globalization ’s enemies as de facto vicious , encouraging exploitation of the poor and vulnerable alike . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor through increased demand for their goods . it is here that questions about the universal principles of justice and human rights enter the debate . for innovation is what creates wealth and employment , despite -- or rather because of -- competition from poor countries .
that is why abe was the first foreign politician after british prime minister theresa may to rush to congratulate trump at a person in 2017 . like italy , japan was on the frontlines in the cold war . constitutionally , one can not participate in military adventures other than the highly paid goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like countries in western europe , could concentrate on rebuilding its own industrial power . but the democracy that americans remain proud of installing after 1945 also undermined american interference . in some important ways , japan benefited enormously from american wing rule , as well as the postwar us constitution , which is not only pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression .
but much of the problem stems from the under-briefed , undereducated , and the uncurious press corps . the economics profession bears part of the blame for this , too . nobel prize winners like edward prescott have no business discussing the benefits of tax cuts without pointing out that a tax cut accompanied spending increases is not a tax cut at all , but rather a tax shift to the future – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all of this economic legerdemain has been magnified by tv , print , and internet journalists . aside from a tiny number of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that anyone reading or listening to english-language media coverage could learn anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies were probably superior to america .
fayyad is the first palestinian leader who has failed to emerge from the fatah movement , and he may therefore understand what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . until now , they have failed to abysmally in institutional nation-building , a much-needed requirement for any successful national movement . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of a majority of palestinians , so far , since the united nations proposed partitioning of british palestine into two states , both jewish and arab ones , failed to move from ideology to reality . fayyad is the first palestinian leader who failed to emerge from the fatah movement and may thus understand what other palestinian leaders failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of a majority of palestinians , so far since the united nations proposed partitioning of british palestine into two states , jewish and arab lands , it has failed to move from ideology to reality .
in 1592 , japan general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , fought alongside korea against japan . three centuries later , china ’s ’s qing dynasty had fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 in order to stop japan from dominating korea . in 1592 , japan ’s general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . at the same time , any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must defuse china ’s geostrategic worries about the future of the korean peninsula .
according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or change a wide range of human jobs . but it is a slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . the “ official ” narrative of technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . at the same time , embracing new technology is widely viewed as indispensable to a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success . thus , disruptions to existing work patterns should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” by adaptation to education and social-security systems to automation-driven job market needs .
yet the ultimate impact on science and technology will depend on all three factors . first , develop , sustain , and utilize local capacities and leadership . developing scientific and technological capacities is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing . every nation must also develop strategies that offer researchers and technologists local employment opportunities . so african nations must develop strategies that offer researchers and technologists local employment opportunities .
in this sense , fifa is not a special case : all nonprofit and for-profit organizations around the world are expected to adhere to this code of conduct . and this is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade from view . a code of conduct on the field – where we expect players to dispense with each other under a clear set of rules that are swiftly enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . they must be targeted head-on , with the pure sweep of its governance structures and a complete overhaul of its governance structures . fifa is as complex as any large-scale transnational private or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect this .
in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by 20 % since 2001 . in the west , young people have largely become dispensed with the home-delivered physical morning newspapers , and instead catch up on news whenever they choose , using tablets , laptops , or cellphone service . even a few grand titles have either closed down or publish only online . the industry has faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating in many cases setting out large numbers of staffing personnel , particularly in their overseas bureaus . as advertising revenues have been vacuous among internet giants facebook and google , newspaper profits have plunged .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile , following the 1973 coup , and iran following the 1979 revolution . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people , a challenge at every opportunity , much less during a period of profound economic crisis . for decades , the swedish industry had become dependent on an immigrant ’s labor force . but this still proved well : bosnian immigrants fared roughly as much as the swedes who received them were enriching our societies . in the new century , refugees came increasingly from the middle east and the horn of africa .
google , facebook , and amazon all have announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . another study , by the boston consulting group , points out that many small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic states , the nordic countries – rank well above america in so-called “ e-intensity ” issues that covers it ( infrastructure , internet access ) , internet access , and government engagement in internet-connected activities . one-third of these firms have acquired tech companies since their inception in 2015 . foreign firms are also rushing to exploit european tech talent . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion occurred last year , compared to only $ 3.3 billion in 2014 – including the softbank ’s purchase of the british <UNK> tor-project and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase of nxp semiconductors .
so far , public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . that presents xi with a real challenge , to say the least . after a decade of administrations by slogan , the chinese public wants substance . it rose to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp . the china dream , then , is no exception .
against the advice of his council of economic advisers , he announces across-the-board import tariffs on chinese exports . in the us , american president mitt romney has just assumed office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . a combination of financial contagion from europe that has already led to a severe credit crunch , as well as an abrupt flood of lower-priced imports from china leaves romney ’s administration in a bind . china ’s government decides that it can not risk further strife and announces a package of growth-enhancing economic growth and regulatory measures , including direct financial support for us exporters and interference in currency markets , to weaken the renminbi . the demonstrations start in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials .
that power surely explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were not stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective regulatory implementation ( such as massive fighting currently exists around “ volcker ’s rule , ” ” ” ” ” restricting proprietary trading by megabanks ) . and , in that case , it does not even appear to be reflected in the lobbying power of the big financial players . why , then , should the us administration continue to bend over backward to the top bankers under such circumstances ? i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s ’s ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – payment made to individuals , or even political campaign . but the mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter .
like bosnia , syria appears to be hopelessly divided among warring factions , with violence seemingly unstoppable . of course , there are important differences as well . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many features in syria today . the international community has been incapable of achieving a degree of cohesion , far less agreement on a path forward . in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia , including an effort , in its aftermath , to recognize the concepts of universal justice , has applications for the contemporary world .
officially , the pentagon does not direct the notion of a “ air-sea struggle ” against any particular country . their approach , a concept called “ air-sea struggle , ” ” ” ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive instruments to address the new challenges posed by the nato-led proliferation . given china ’s own history of vulnerability to us foreign interventions , america ’s unilateral effort to retain an overwhelming offensive advantage would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate largely technocratic solutions to this dilemma . iran , for example , has been holding precision-strike capacity – and a far more antagonistic relationship with america – would warrant new american initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerability .
should she assume an important role on this stage ? mrs. watanabe has a talent for seeing how the tide turns . her advice aims to seize opportunities at work , as well as to find happiness in marriage and young children . or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? mrs. watanabe places her daughter ’s nudge she needs .
in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : aside from closing chernobyl , the us will introduce western nuclear safety norms and reneging on cooperation with the imf via an expanded fund facility program . at the same time , euroatom is helping with a $ 585 million loan to finance repairs in ukraine ’s functioning nuclear plants . while we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything alone . a positive sign here is the european bank ’s recent decision for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to finalize nuclear power stations at rivne and khmeltsky to compensate for the loss of chernobyl generating capacity . international support for our efforts is critical .
while there is nothing like soviet oppression , the estrangement between the state and society resembles that of the soviet days . to be sure , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy , but revolutionary agitation . russia ’s people wanted to make the difference , and amazingly , they did so : its energies and cohesion imposed the end of communist rule . instead , political life here was reduced to mere formality . outside this sea of democratic emotion , new political institutions were expected to emerge .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their results remain highly uncertain . as is so often true in crises that become systemic , we have known the phenomena , but have failed to grasp their interactions , partly because politicians and analysts are reluctant to anticipate ruptures : the familiar are held to be stable , even when it is known to be problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard as an island of “ “ stability . ” ) but some initial lessons for international politics – and for western europe , particularly us foreign policy – merit serious consideration . almost everyone was surprised by the revolts , even though the political and socioeconomic causal factors are well known .
while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its land and fixed assets stand at some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that even if asset values had been written off by half , local governments would remain insolvent . to resolve it , the government announced fiscal reforms to distribute revenues among central and local governments , and to allow local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . nonetheless , because china is a net lender of the world , lgfv debt has no global systemic implications . to be sure , this leaves only the question of debt-servicing capacity . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its land and fixed-asset assets stand at some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that even if asset values had been written off by half , local governments would remain insolvent .
the dominance of free-market ideology prior to the crisis enabled many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go nearly unchallenged . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism could no longer deflate now by invoking impersonal economic laws . “ progressive ” social liberalism and the “ conservative ” free-market economics appeared to have been two sides of the same coin . racial and gender equality are now backed by clear majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies , such as trade protectionism and strict immigration controls , rarely muster over 30-40 % of their support in opinion surveys . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism could no longer be deflated by invoking impersonal economic laws .
as the us predicted almost 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period for the simple reason that its working-age population growth will have peaked . it is equally predictable that india will begin to grow at a much faster pace than china , simply because its working-age labor force still has many of the growing left to do . the real question now is whether india can implement strong productivity-enhancing reforms . while the pessimists will undoubtedly find validation in additional chinese growth disappointments to come , optimists may point to the fact that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % growth in germany . at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would in fact be quite extraordinary .
equally important is contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to vary the mix of such skills in different situations to produce the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” by electing his primary challenger , hillary clinton , as her state secretary of state and reaching across party lines to retain robert gates as defense secretary , she has shown openness to powerful subordinates . moreover , his contextual intelligence regarding world politics has been shaped from the bottom up with experiences in indonesia and kenya ; and his understanding of american policy has been shaped from the bottom up as community organizer in chicago . obama has gone so far as to demonstrate these managerial skill in his near-flawless transition . during his campaign , obama has shown these skill in his tranquil responses to crises , his forward-thinking vision , and his super-b organizational capabilities .
the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in dawes , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspapers , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … was self-defeating . [ it ] has diminished the country ’s stature and left its reputation smeared . ” domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political evolution . with pakistan ’s economy mired in a tailspin , and with the culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , the moderate voices are having long since coming to a breaking point . with pakistan ’s economy mired in a tailspin , and with the culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking .
gref ’s agenda , too , is emblematic of a president ’s style : modernizing from above -- ie , which initiated by the government and under its pressures , is matched by modernization from below , say , the basis of private-sector initiative . enhancing competition will entail placing emphasis on antitrust policies and lowering state subsidies . gref 's agenda , too , is emblematic of a presidential-style president : modernizing property from above -- ie , what has been launched by the government and under its pressures -- is matched by modernization from below , based on private initiative . moreover , gref 's program seeks to build efficient private land ownership . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the agenda : strengthening and safeguarding property rights , deregulation , and spurring competition .
the public no longer thinks of the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstract drive to forge an ever-closer union . indeed , the eu ’s people are waking up to a world that is both more dangerous , divided , and disorienting . in today ’s france , disagreements are playing the roots of a stronger union . increasingly , the eu is coming to be seen as a practical – and absolutely vital – mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet its shared challenges . the pattern is starting to look familiar : a new meeting in brussels , originally muddled responses , debates , and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a shared response fueled by a realization that no other alternative is at stake .
sir howard davies chose to resign as director of a lse that awarded saif his doctorate ( of which some allege was plagiarized ) and took money for school from the libyan regime . these scholars were pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly having cozied themselves against qaddafi . in other words , would i follow in following in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues , who traveled to libya to exchange views with and advising his dictator , who was paid for his services ? there is a groundswell of sentiment that the academics and institutions working closely with such odious regimes often with encouragement to their own governments , undoubtedly suffered grave lapse in judgment . muammar el-qaddafi ’s ’s murderous posture during the uprising exposed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate posture in recent years .
in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of responding to cybermeasures or cross-sector responses like sanctions . so , eight days before the vote , america sent russia a warning of us election meddling over hotline – created three years earlier – to grapple with major cyber incidents – that connects both countries ’ nuclear-risk reduction centers . but some critics say that the russians had already achieved their core goals . because russian hacking activity appeared to slow or restrain , the obama administration cited a warning as a successful exercise in deterrence . the administration was reluctant to take steps that might themselves disrupt the elections .
in an increasingly protracted crisis , like that in syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with support from the international community , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments can pay principal in terms of concessional lending from the world bank . should this initiative be pursued before ecuador ’s earthquake , it could provide 12 months of emergency aid to help the country , until it could reinstate education under its national marshall plan . the fund would thus fill the gap in coordination and delivery of services by strengthening the system at its weakest point , providing a bridge to longer-term development . injecting funding , promoting a shared strategy developed in partnership with governments would enable immediate delivery of education in emergency situations . once it is established , aid would be made available to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate plans to provide education to children affected by emergencies based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be tackled in silos .
no israeli leader since demonstrated anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not close to sufficient . for all his deep emotional attachment to israel ’s vision of israel embracing all of its historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to secure a democratic jewish state with a viable state to secure frontiers was to accept a palestinian state alongside it , equally secure and viable . rabin ’s murder was a catastrophe from which the peace process never really recovered . they would jerusalem share as a capital , finding a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive question of the return of palestinian refugees .
if you want to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) and turn it upside down , water emerges in uneven glugs . some might think that this might be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent life is at stake to be a nuclear explosion that is a pulverized earth . but that is not what schneider and sagan mean . instead , they differentiate between matter and energy , saying that matter organized in structures disseminates energy gradients faster than randomly distributed matter . as one example , they view a phenomenon of which beer drinkers have long known .
the image of argentina as a country with infinite promise became desaparecido , the name given to those who disappeared in the 1970 ’s ’ dirty war . we have lost our organizing principle , and no other idea has replaced it . we no longer have a guide , an idea of how to think about our country , how to comprehend it , and how to imagine who we are and whom we can become . we have lost our organizing principle , and no other idea has replaced it . we no longer have a guide , an idea of how to think about our country , how to understand it , and how to imagine who we are and whom we could be .
for their part , some contemporary cia officials continue to insist on america ’s value ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , despite us senate reports suggesting that the techniques that he employed yielded no value intelligence . indeed , this pattern recurs in us accounts for anyone living in afghanistan , speaking the language , and understanding the workings of patronage and power there . over and over again , the same story is playing out : a local power-broker is willing , even eager , to support a new us-backed us government , only to be denounced as a taliban member by afghan forces typically for local political or personal reasons – not until us actions forced them . the week of the us senate ’s report emerged , i was reading anand gopal ’s new book no good men among a living that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of former us president hamid karzai ’s supporter , the taliban leadership , and the kabul-born housewife , who spent years in purdah in the taliban country . indeed , other accounts of america ’s ’s “ “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that many of those who had been detained and tortured did not threaten america ’s security – at least not so long as us actions
some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same for chancellor gerhard schröder , although they have not yet ( so far ) found a movie star to replace him . beyond europe this applies even to the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis rodríguez silva to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter hailed a referendum in order to arrest his sinking popularity . several other european governments are finding themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after they are elected . replacing the governor whom they are reelected only a year before with arnold schwarzenegger has had to give californian voters big -- if guilty -- pleasure . electoral success , it seems , is fast nowadays .
the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to resource allocation and lowering the cost of doing business . and , at the same time , the “ opening-up dividend ” authorities have reached maturity as well , with encountering protectionist barriers worldwide . the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) has reflected its commitment to resource allocation and lowering the costs of doing business . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continuing to move the global value chain forward , by implementing further economic reforms and targeting new technologies . and , in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take the country ’s ’s manufacturing base into the internet age .
perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test , published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of the poor , discovered that while they received slightly more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives on life : they did not increase savings or expenditures , they did n’t work more or start more , and their children did n’t study more . off-grid energy at this level will never power a plant or a farms , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . off-grid energy at this level will never power a plant or an farms , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . the iea expects that each of the 195 million off-grid people will get only 170kwh per year – or about half what one us flat-screen uses within a year . off-grid energy at that level will never power a plant or a farms , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high rates of ncds . rural populations of densely packaged urban areas in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution and are far less likely to have access to adequate nutrition . from 1990 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in developing countries . from 1990 to 2010 , death and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries rose 300 % faster than gdp . some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high ncds .
when citizens and politicians come to view politics as a zero-sum game and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in . in a chicken , two drivers race to a cliff ( or toward each other ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve in the face of an imminent disaster . rather , the politics themselves have become operationally dysfunctional . both european and american debates have replete with posturing and tests of will turn politics into a “ chicken game . ” but if neither the driver concedes , both are destroyed .
when ordinary egyptians , having organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square , and overthrown former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , technology seemed to herald a boost to democracy . political institutions did not keep pace with technological change and the resulting growth in markets . in the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their ability to shift profits toward low-tax jurisdictions , continue to allow them largely to escape from the purview of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work to avoid corporate-profit erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to choose ” embryos with desired characteristics . but it soon became obvious that such digital platforms could be co-opted by authoritarian governments or terrorists , using new fake news , influencing electoral processes , and sowing deep divisions and turmoil across societies .
while trump has criticized the rise of america ’s national debt , he is now proposing tax cuts to add trillions of dollars to us debt over just the next ten years – not the only ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim will add , owing to a certain growth miracle that results in more tax revenues . addressing the panoply of other problems confronting the us will require more federal revenues , not fewer . but the federal government ’s promotion of research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . still , the key lesson from ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has changed not : tax cuts like these are not driving rapid growth , but simply to lower revenues . increases in living standards , for example , are driven by technological innovation , which in turn depends on basic research .
that would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establishing an independent commission to submit to congress amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and spending reform . while it will probably lack the public option that many in the us favor , that remains a genuine achievement . obama may use his state of the union ’s message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy to reduce budget deficits to a sustainable level . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial reform , where , as with health care , there is a welter of conflicting proposals . the same middle-of-the-road approach can be taken in the second year to address still-outstanding fiscal issues .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as europe ’s latest battleground in a contest between the two models of democracy – liberal versus “ illiberal ” democracy . in response , the european commission has launched an official inquiry into potential violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . the crushing electoral victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party has led to something more akin to regime change than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration has purged civil service ( including public radio and tv ) , packaged a constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened the court ’s capacity to strike legislation . moreover , standard & poor ’s have , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s foreign-owned currency rating from july to bbc + , warning of perhaps more cuts to come as it accuses governments of weakening “ independence ” and effectiveness of key institutions .
the regime appears to believe that there is only a small likelihood of a military strike on its nuclear program . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing more horrifies to khamenei and islamic republic leaders than to the social dynamism unleashed by a democratic movement brewing within the country . beyond powers thus do not seem to pose a great deal of threat . furthermore , in shiite tradition , the strategy of the mahdi , shiite messiah , will be intended to intimidate all of its enemies upon his return to earth . nor do it believe that sanctions can bring about his downfall .
it was this sunni hegemony – and not only that of saddam ’s ba’athist regime , which was overthrown by the united states . throughout its history , a modern iraq has always been the most repressive in the arab world . ever since , the country could be held together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts , all placed down in bloody fashions by the ruling sunni minority . saddam ’s rule was merely the most brutal in the long lines of sunni regimes . for his own political reasons , the brics have placed sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population – in control of the entire region , and even imported a sunni arab hashemite prince to govern over their creation .
sometimes , the scale of the sequence identity among two orthologs can be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attested to the robustness of function to evolutionary change . proteins that retain the same function across very different species , more generally , with orthologs to be expected to stay the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids that make up the protein chains within these orthologs can vary considerably . this protein fold across species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , for it is well known that the numbers of human genes are deceptively small , simply one order of magnitude larger than , say , rice . if the structure of the proteins is conserved across species , where is our complexities come from ?
similarly , georgian ’s inability to manage relations with its only autonomous republic , adzharia , fails to inspire much trust . president saakashvili appears to grasp the necessity of reviving georgia ’s moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . georgia ’s current economic meltdown provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics to encourage reunification . the adzhar people regard themselves as georgian gians , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel reassured by their relations with georgia to work out any better ?
moreover , the scots , welsh , and iranians have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . though socioeconomic factors have played some role in the brexit referendum ’s outcome , geographic breakdown is telling the real story . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain focus squarely on english national identity , while diluting those of scotland , northern irish , and welsh , who would revert to serving as junior partners in a far less magnificent and redeemable english project . as in the past , “ imperialism ” aspires to unity , but comes with divisive side effects . excluding london , which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , with 55 % of voters supporting leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of the scots , and 56 % of northern ireland , voted to remain .
the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does not wreak ecological havoc and recognize the importance of adapting to climate change . but promisingly – and shockingly , given america ’s somewhat toxic state of policy , it attracted broad support and smart commentary by many mainstream pundits . in the us , we witnessed some equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report calling for revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy cheap . this sensible proposal , predictably , drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does not wreak ecological havoc and recognize the importance of climate-change adaptation .
the problem boils down to overcoming potential opposition – from both the elite and the public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . solving the elite ’s interests requires ingenuity . all four north african rulers have , to greater or lesser degrees , made themselves the hub of highly opaque power structures . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently solid grip on power , ensuring that relative takeovers are not as straightforward as they appear . everything in their countries depends on a person and a family , rather than a office .
they have brought it to power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they have backed it , even as it has led them to genocidal crimes and defeat after its defeat . ultimate moral responsibility for what milosevic has been doing with serbia rests with serbia ’s people . but decisions may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s ’s future . many who agree that milosevic is a war criminal are now thinking that we should listen to voices coming from belgrade and their outcry that milosevic should face trial before his own people . ultimate moral responsibility for what milosevic was doing .
for starters , the us is once again moving toward what henry kissinger called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s shas party an invitation to the white house . but , on a recent trip to israel , the white house adviser , dan shapiro , is said to have been reassured that the israelis will not embarrass their american friends . palestinians were reassured by the message made by us president barack obama ’s special envoy , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not be able to fulfill any “ provocations ” over the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear , palestinians acknowledged that there is no written promise to this effect .
to be sure , in the short run , some authoritarian modernizers ( for example , singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than their democratically elected leaders ( italy ’s silvio berlusconi , for example ) . in the long term , however , democracies are benefiting from the intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies where often-insufficient leaders cling to power . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are plenty of authoritarian non-modernizers ( for example , singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) , like zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , or uzbekistan ’s karimov . to be sure , in the short run , some authoritarian modernizers ( for example , singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) are serving their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( italy ’s silvio berlusconi , for example ) . the chinese model brings together some of the authoritarian modernization model as well as centralized power , rapid decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior ability to implement painful but necessary reforms – with managerial turnover by de-personalizing the political struggle .
but the obama administration needs to go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two more things . first , capital requirements should be tripled – not only in the us , but throughout the g-20 , to keep banks holding at least 20-25 % of their assets in core capital . that way , shareholders rather than regulators would play a leading role in making banks behave sensible . the dilution of glass-steagall and its ultimate repeal in 1999 allowed banks to engage in so-called proprietary trading schemes that allowed them to use depositors ’ savings to trade for their own account , mostly on risky mortgage-backed securities . second , if the banks are “ too big to fail ” , ” they need to be shrunk to the point that taxpayers no longer need to bail them out every time a crisis erupts .
others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . its collapse would trigger a nuclear arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , such weapons would behave responsibly would represent a high-risk gamble . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . and , make no mistake : the treaty is .
beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of hitler . its scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode reflected the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs to its native germany , or even to the west , but to all of mankind . beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of hitler . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative poland .
of $ 50 billion in external debt owed to russian banks and corporations in 2008 , governments were refinanced by only about $ 10 billion . apparently , the terms offered by the government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target . how , then , were reasonable economic policies that dominate this crisis ? instead , up to now , the government has mostly been lending ( high-interest ) loans rather than engaging in massive capital buyouts . nor have the “ oligarchs ” been allowed to dismiss .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes over trump ’s luxurious florida estate , he will at least partly focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . the us and its allies have successfully navigated the call of europe in the twentieth century without a war . despite more than two decades of introspection under soviet negotiations , north korea ’s ’s ’s nuclear weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed much like that which the west faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against each other in europe . when the us and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had a way of deterring another from under attack . but , in order to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump needs to persuade xi to adopt a different policy toward north korea .
theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice again . for the moment , the temptation is for europe ’s right to find its “ new look ” through its selective appeal to religion – and to wait and see whether it functions as an electoral strategy that they should remember , however , that starting a kulturkampf may be playing with fire : it may be possible to instrumentalize religious passions for a time ; but such passions may not be held permanently out from above . that is not an absurd idea ; it is not a matter of reference . there is a long and distinguished tradition of catholic social thought . but to take those traditions seriously would require a much larger transformations of capitalism than even the avowed christian democrats are ready to contemplate , including a much wider distribution of ownership and governance mechanisms that involve managerial workers .
fiscal sustainability demands an eventual rise in the consumption tax ; of course , japan should not wait until international investors begin doubting its willpower . but this brings us back to japan ’s own deeper problems . the problem lies in both the timing and the tactics involved in the future . demand policies on their own will not alone prevent two more lost decades , far fewer ensure two golden ones . postponing a second consumption-tax hike seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility .
and they were willing to overlook growing evidence from trump ’s ’s ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to a porn star and others for silence ) in exchange for policy influence and appointments to social conservatives to the supreme court and across federal judiciary . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strength . ” in fact , separating families ’ policies was threatening to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . normally , supine congressional republicans panicked telling trump and his team that his policies of tearing families apart could spoil their chances in november ’s midterm elections . unusually for her , former first lady laura bush spoke out against a policy of receiving children from their mothers .
but eu membership does not imply estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will spur russia ’s imperial ambitions . this , in turn , reduces russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full-fledged democracy ; for it can govern an empire merely as a militarized state . it is a mark of a good club that people clamor to become members . an ever-larger eu , including ukraine , would form a political unit with a vast population , furthering the union ’s aspirations for global powers .
anyone visiting the greek cypriot part of israel nowadays will not find refugee camps : a majority of the millions of tourists are unaware of the reality that more than one-third of the greek cypriots they encounter are refugees or the offspring of refugees . in just a few years , refugees have been absorbed into the israeli economy and the societies of israel ’s southern , greek cypriot sector . businesses have been encouraged with government subsidies and credits , so they have been encouraged . as in the post-world war ii west germany , much of the current prosperity in cyprus today is the outcome of a boost to the economy received from absorbing refugees . schools and training centers have been established .
in nigeria , astounding economic growth , averaging 7 % per year since 2000 , may well reduce poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeastern region , the northeastern region ( where the extremist group boko haram is most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are getting richer because they are not stuck to the same set of regulations as everybody else . it ’s not hard to see why . similar trends are evident from china to egypt to greece .
as its economic and geopolitical clout has waned , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . but the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . indeed , not only has it revived a cold war-era tactic of dispatching military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic sea and the north sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries such as denmark . russia ’s army officers have reported , in direct direct defense of their extensive military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of the critical transport center of debaltseve in june . after all , russia is the one country with sufficient missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy america .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err with hope than to be right with despair . ” contrary to what many democratic cassandras to think , the worst is not inevitable . authoritarians and populists have not emerged ; indeed , in many parts of the world , the democrats are on the back burner . or , to put it less optimistically , both democracy and autocracy still have similar prospects for decaying . for now , it remains uncertain that the model will prevail .
there are two preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage of talmudic . one could dismiss this dispute as merely boils down to mere rhetoric . but , taking advantage of talmudic logic , one can also show that there are mechanisms that can – and should – be used to hold pressure on parties to secure superior voluntary outcomes . the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept a deal “ voluntarily . ” one argues that coercion can change minds .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe initiated in 2012 has come under growing scrutiny . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s ’s ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and unemployment has fallen to just over 3 % last year . but japan ’s current travails , having brought the concomitant drop in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s ’s ’s ’s appreciation of 24 % , against major currencies . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , with tax revenues exceeding ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 billion ) . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis appears to have ended . growth in the united states and parts of europe has bounced back . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears to be sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows . asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 , when it entered into effect . private-sector deleveraging has persisted , but has been counterbalanced by rising public-sector deficits and debt .
in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to possess nuclear weapons and deny them to others ? they may have argued that all of them should be achieved , or none at all . perhaps , they would have argued , all should be required to get it done , or none at all . but history also depends on the paths taken in the past . suppose that it was 1939 , with states debating whether the american should invent the bomb .
china ’s retail markets peaked at cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , following more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . and that ’s good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book commercial sector by the fung business intelligence ( ai ) and the chinese academy of social sciences maps reverse the process . household consumption has started to pick up , even as the pace of investment has fallen , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . hong kong , too , is playing out with china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-driven and export-led economy to one underpinned by services and domestic consumption .
part of the attraction of these types of synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( not to be allowed to shoot down , snort , or smoke ) . the worldwide market for such stimulants ( sbs ) is estimated to be estimated at $ 65 billion . but what goes up needs to come down . amphetamines are speeding up the way that the body works : users experience enhanced trust , sociability , and energy . this buzz is considered innocuous : pills do n’t kill or propagate hiv/aids ; they are said .
sadly , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to receive the attention they demanded . what have we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? studies of balkan wars and the many wars that have been consuming afghanistan during the 1990 ’s began through an international organization like the un environment program ( unep ) . what have we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? attempts have been made ever since to examine systematically and document the ecological consequences of wars .
paris – whoever wins september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come again for a major franco-german initiative . are the alternatives to franco-german leadership in europe ? joining great britain with them in the “ three way ” club would be a good idea , but it is out of the question nowadays . britain has largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe . whatever its economic preconditions or confidence – or lack of it – in each other , france and germany are more than ever jointly responsible for the future , if not its very survival , of the european project .
the paper provides a brilliant lesson in development economics : it shows how to pool a full-employment approach to market-oriented reforms with an urgently needed focus on poverty . upon returning to office earlier this spring as prime minister , singh brought to the government with an experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh luwalia , who heads the planning commission , a key body that assesses india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . in short , the budget is a model for all developing countries . chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget places these fears to rest . upon coming to office earlier this spring as prime minister , singh brought into office , there was growing fear that singh would hamstrung left-wing coalition partners demanding that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their involvement in a new ruling coalition .
according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia have experienced spectacular growth , from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp has risen by 52 % in ukraine , and by 46 % in russia . that is history now : annual real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , compared to just 1.3 % in russia . discontent stemming from such frustration may help to explain ukrainian separatists ’ fury , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s determination to annex crimea and prop up separatists . and such fears may well have severe consequences , for the most part . for starters , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and the russian economies may well be behind the recent war .
fourth , the eu ’s aspiration to a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . which measures can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? the threats facing the world nowadays are supranational , so that counteracting them must become supranational , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity , and thus a shared interest that must be asserted and defended . which measures can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ?
in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people tried to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . barcelona – after world war i , whereby millions of european civilians were forced out of their homelands through hostile occupation or deportation – an international regime developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those who are uprooted . a century later , yet another refugee crisis is underway , and this one is europe that has the power to provide a safe haven for the desperate people . some 1,800 people have died as a result of – more than twice – the number of such deaths in all of 2013 . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its responses failing to match the situation ’s urgency .
american sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop and deploying similar measures by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . without the eu ’s participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to america ’s sanctions , they remain fragile and temporary , at best . just one year after the treaty of iran was reached , it is already hard to imagine china or russia returning further joint military action against iran , even as the agreement begins to unravel . america ’s sanctions against russia , for example , have been amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop and deploying similar measures by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner .
india ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil and , over the next two years , indian diplomatic missions will open up in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had one division of foreign ministry ; now , it has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner in africa . a study by the confederation of indian chambers of commerce and industry has identified five major industries that can act as “ “ “ growth engines ” to underpin indo-africa trade : pharmaceuticals and the health sector , information technology , water management , food processing , and education .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo benjamin ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for talks between israel and palestine , in which engaging actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . that paradigm should be expanded to include the geneva negotiations over the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt considering a greater role to play . to be sure , involving regional powers might complicate already-muddy negotiations further . the objective , therefore , must be clarity and balance . only with a rebalancing of negotiations – guided by regional and global actors – can a stable balance of power across the middle east .
and policymakers have long had to strike a balance between an abstract principle of openness and concrete action to rein in the worst effects of change . it can mean that something is unrestricted , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it can mean that something , like a person or an institution , is transparent , as opposed to being secretive . milan – the word “ openness ” – has two related but distinct connotations . the first meaning is often applied to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not match opportunities with vulnerability ) that have always fueled structural economic change , particularly with respect to employment . structural change , in turn , can be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive .
faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed has attempted to promote growth in indirect , experimental ways . but such “ wealth effects ” and the “ animal spirits of animal spirits ” have proven to be quite feeble . so the fed has felt compelled to do more of the same , resulting in hosting the unintended consequences and risks of collateral damage that i discussed in some detail in my book the single game in town . by injecting multi-channel liquidity , it has raised financial asset prices well beyond what the economy ’s fundamentals have warranted . the fed has hoped that it will compel particular segments of its population ( asset holders ) to feel wealthier , enticing them to spend more , and encouraging companies to invest more .
as a result , certain groups of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and perceiving language , can begin to function autonomously , beyond controlling or affecting other brain systems . what remains unaddressed is the root cause of abnormal brain activations . the first relies on studies suggesting that schizophrenia 's patients suffer from reduced brain connectivity . we pursue three intertwined notions ; we are different from them . it is as if a string of orchestra suddenly chose to play its own music , disregarding everyone else .
but bold , visionary leadership will need to seal the successor treaty to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . the agreement reached there must be ambitious , efficient , and equitable , offer by rich countries a way to cut back on greenhouse-gas emissions , while encouraging poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse effects of climate change . i have seen the effects of deforestation in brazilian amazon and loss of biodiversity . i have seen a decrease in glaciers in antarctica and among the andes . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including the portions of trinidad and tobago , might be endangered if sea levels rise .
these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . at the same time , problems like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have worsened this process . since the 1990 ’s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore in order to learn from its experience . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china has developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders , who involves decades of training and battery examinations for officials at various stages of their careers . while singapore ’s political system may not readily transfer to a giant country like china , it represents a model that has helped shape china ’s recent drift toward meritocracy .
the united states has vetoed reelection , advocated by france , of un secretary general boutros-ghali , arguing that it wants to “ enlarge the role ” of un secretary general in reforming the world ’s body . at the same time , washington does not even want to hear any talk about conferring on europe , as france ’s demands , command of the allied naval fleet in the mediterranean . relations between the two nato allies have entered one of those periods in tension , which has flared up many times since world war ii ’s close . today , there seems to be nothing left with franco-american goodwill . the united states has vetoed reelection , advocated by france , of un secretary general boutros-ghali , arguing that it wants to “ enlarge the role ” of general secretary general in reforming the world ’s body .
over time , free trade enables workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy . moreover , increased trade openness is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy , particularly in developing countries . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which implies millions more people lifted out of poverty . the white house ’s 2015 report , for example , found that often-percentage-point drop in tariffs results in a one-percentage-point drop in the wage gap between men and women ; and that lowering tariffs also reduces wage gaps based on race and immigration status . freer trade across borders lowers income disparities .
as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s spectacular economic growth and development over the last several decades has eroded hong kong ’s ’s ’s standing as the center for finance , logistics , and trade . today , hong kong accounts for a mere one-eighth of china ’s ’s ’s trade . but hong kong ’s perks are now at risk , owing largely to its own insecurities . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s foreign trade , with its gdp amounted to almost one-fifth that of china ’s ’s . it has far outperformed shanghai – mainland china ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume .
brexit is , and it will remain , the lose-lose proposition . though may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , she has offered only vague suggestions regarding how this may actually be achieved . finally , remaining within the eu ’s customs union would force her to avoid re-establishing a hard border between the uk and the eu after brexit . the alternatives available for the eu are either to see the uk vaceither to leave its customs union or to leave the uk in , by making a political commitment to take british interests in mind . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable to the latter .
but some of the most powerful leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , have been little more than five feet tall . the traits-centered approach has not been vanished from leadership studies , but it has been broadened to make a more flexible approach . a tall handsome person is entering a room , drawing attention and “ look like a leader . ” a tall handsome person is entering a room , drawing attention and “ look like a leader . ” a tall handsome person is entering a room , drawing attention , and “ look like a leader . ”
in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of the englishman in london using the telephone to order goods from around the world to deliver to his home by the afternoon . today , however , globalization is distinct , because it is becoming faster and thicker . witness the emigration of peoples and religions , or business along the ancient silk route connecting medieval europe and asia . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europe and america were able to interact on a moment . a globalization that can be defined as interdependence at inter-continental distances is as old as human history .
to be sure , one might argue that post-crisis regulatory reform will ultimately resolve the problem of periodic systemic risk and return to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risks without periodic imbalances . but i would not bet on this view . the historical evidence suggests that systemic risk remains persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts . for example , an endowment or pension fund might consider basing its payouts more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a simple weighted average of past returns or end-period asset values ( ordinary practices now ) . financial innovation will go along with regulatory arbitrage .
the result has been massive budget deficits , expanding to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures . third , america ’s recovery wo n’t be credible unless there is also a strategy for getting the government ’s own finances back in order . george w. bush ’s vision of economic policy has been to slash taxes at a rate of three times , while simultaneously boosting wartime spending . either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses low emission forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public financing alongside private investment .
first , observers need to be autonomous – financially and otherwise – in their relations with the host country . according to the 2005 declaration of the council of international election observations , credible monitoring requires that five criteria be met . third , observers need to confront no limitations in meetings with all the authorities and political actors . second , observers need to be granted unrestricted access to all aspects and phases of the election process , as well as to all those involved in the technologies involved . according to the 2005 declaration of the international election observations , credible monitoring requires that five criteria be met .
this example is relevant to the public-service policy that dominates debate in many countries , for it lies at the heart of the big problems of both government budgets ( and cutting them back ) and taxation ( and reducing them ) . as the criteria ’ list grows longer , it becomes apparent that the most readily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable traits , rather than necessarily the most substantial ones . more important , they should be made to be made to make them safer , at least for the time being . they should run not only on time , but at the right time and at reasonable intervals . more important , they should be affordable , too .
the distribution is haphazard and uncoordinated , done with little thought possible . we saw relief workers throw packets to eat and clothing from the top trucks , which causes a riot . but people told us that they often miss , and supplies ground up thousands of feet or beneath deep forests . hustlers thrive , the weak watch passively . we saw helicopters attempt air drops ; landing is impossible in most places .
the information-technology revolution that brought america ’s computers , smartphones , gps , and much more was built on a wide range of industries and government roadmaps . in fact , the process of “ directed technological change , ” in which bold goals are set , milestones are identified , and timelines are put into play , is far more frequent than many realize . a example of atomic bombs might seem disagreeable , yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to collaborate on war-making technology , should n’t we be able to do the same to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in both cases , scientists and engineers delivered on time . in pursuing the manhattan project ( to produce an atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , america ’s government set a remarkable technological goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources needed to get the job done .
but anti-americanism is simply irrational for a russia that only stands to gain from an alliance with a global economic and political leader . europe will most likely continue to grow weaker , rather than stronger , on this front . at the same time , russia will reap the benefits of active foreign-policy engagement with the eu . to be sure , good relations with europe have a high priority for russia , particularly its economic links , human connections , and social interactions . but strategic alliances with the eu over foreign and security policies remain unrealistic and inefficient .
to avert such catastrophic results , we need a comprehensive approach to boosting health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . and , with the rise of new diseases like zika – and a revival of old foes like the bubonic plague – there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . a influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 – which killed between 50 and 100 million – would be even more devastating today . moreover , globalization has compounded the dangers by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . in particular , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases like cancer and diabetes , which impose immense burdens on their economies .
piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . the benefit of income-tax hikes is that they could be based not only on current income levels , but on some income averages over several years , and could allow investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes without penalizing those that saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-term plan , legislated by one or several countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occurs , could pave the way for an international dialogue about appropriate future policy toward inequality . that would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby shoring up the super-rich ’ ability to evade taxation by shifting location . and , if there are wealth taxes at stake , instituting them now to take effect only in the future , and only if inequality becomes much worse – indeed , if inequality becomes far worse – the perception that the rules were changed after the game ended .
as the 2008 olympics approached , i began to look for new ways to record my people ’s history . my first stint in a chinese jail was tied to work that i began in the early 2000s , printing and distributing tibetan-language books . many spent years taking part in jail for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i have vowed to speak out , too . chinese authorities , however , have viewed them as a challenge to their rule . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began to look for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – massive protests in warsaw have made headlines worldwide in recent weeks . the polish constitution establishes for an independent judiciary and sets a term for the supreme court ’s first president at six years . yet a new law that enables polish president andrzej duda to replace up to three-fifths of the supreme court ’s injustices , including chief justice , in 2018 alone . that means that judges can not remove legislation , at least not constitutionally . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the supreme court ’s retirement age , effectively empowering all judges over the age of 65 , and allowing the pis to pack a court with its own tame justices .
the most recent proof : mauricio funes , the standard bearer of the fmln – until not long ago the marxist guerilla movement – has just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . back in his radical days , ken livingstone , the former london mayor , famously quipped that if voting had changed anything , they would abolish it . this is noteworthy in a country that for as long as anyone remembers it was ruled , by hook , or trickery , by a reactionary oligarchy . if the salvadoran left its close electoral victory peacefully accepted itself as it has so far been accepted , it implies that latin america has indeed gone a long way . in latin america , it turns out that elections really do shake things .
the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of vulnerability to deception . this is why channeling dispersed knowledge into new ventures requires a regulatory framework that favors a genuinely enlightened and frank approach . “ [ t ] here goes beyond question a body of a very important but unorganized knowledge that can not possibly be termed a scientific in the sense of shared rules : the familiarity of particular circumstances and the eu . it is with respect to this , which practically every individual has some benefit over all others , in which he or she adheres to unique information about which beneficial uses might be made , but of which he may be able to produce only if decisions based on decisions that are left to him or are made with his active collaboration . the nobel laureate economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ there is a good thing to do with the facts of justice .
in reality , everybody is gearing up behind the scenes for the “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” ” ” and what those participating in the negotiations call “ an even bigger slog . ” “ copenhagen 1 ” has always been bound to fail , in part because – and this may sound bizarre at first – it is all about climate change . with more than 1,000 points still to be agreed upon , all of the policymakers i have spoken recently that they can not see can not see how a meaningful deal can be reached in december in copenhagen . “ copenhagen 1 ” has always been bound to fail , in part because – and this may sound bizarre at first – it is all about climate change . with more than 1,000 points still to be agreed , all of the policymakers i have spoken to recently will not see how a meaningful deal can be reached in december in copenhagen .
that is why addressing consumption bias must be a top priority over the coming years . several changes are needed to ensure continued growth in ev usage and retail sales . still , it is human nature to resist change , with a number of prospective purchasers remain hesitant . sales of electric cars have risen dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 were registered in 2016 , almost half in china . more people arrive at the same conclusion , and those from the us who have been championing evs as one solution to climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching .
a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system , rather than integrate it . the wto ’s gradual marginalization would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as an adjudicator of trade disputes . even when wto decisions had severe adverse effects on a trading partner , they were broadly accepted . this constitutes a notable advance in global governance . the success of the wto ’s adjudication system is reflected in its widespread acceptance .
all of this has been accomplished in the face of ferocious criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that have governed greece during the past 30 years , and thus have been responsible for driving italy toward ruin . now that the greek government has delivered on its part on a bailout deal , it is time for its european and international counterparts to make the program ’s initial revision . it is as if they are unable to see how the reforms may help to restart an economy beset by deep structural problems . the energy market , most important , has liberalized the market for natural gas , and the tourist rentals market , the process for acquiring an investment license has been streamlined . now that the greek government has delivered on its part on a bailout deal , it is time for its european and international counterparts to conclude the program ’s initial revision .
madrid – tackling climate change poses a monumental challenge , but the leader of major global power continues to lament the hands of the issue . early november , us president donald trump gave an official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby affirming a decision that he announced in 2017 . the united states would thus become the only eu country with no party to the pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . madrid – tackling climate change – poses a monumental challenge , but the leader of major global power continues to lament his hands .
commerce department statistics indicate that after-tax corporate earnings ( technically , after-tax earnings from current us inventory production , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at solid 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . meanwhile , far from anemic , current gdp shares of after-tax earnings are well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . while that is down from its 11 % peak hit in 2012 – owing to tepid economic growth , which typically bet on the profit margins , it hardly attests to a chronic earnings problem . for starters , it is a real stretch to bemoan america ’s state of corporate earnings . commerce department statistics indicate that after-tax corporate earnings ( technically , after-tax earnings from current us inventory production , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at solid 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 .
in england , the prescriptions of the anti-depressants now match valium at its climax in 1979 . now anti-depressants -- worldwide brands with household names -- are the problem . the widespread prescription of drugs for troubled minds has always ended badly , right back to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all have proven to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial have allowed doctors to admit it to be so . the last decade has seen a three-fold increase in prescriptions . now anti-depressants are no wonder drugs that they have been touted as .
most high-unemployment economies have shown little feedback from a currency collapse to an inflationary collapse . in venezuela , with an unemployment rate of less than 20 % , the same is expected . to be sure , such measures will be unpopular with the labor party and the correct response here are to opt out of large payroll taxes to allow money wages to rise without an offsetting decline in competitiveness . the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy to a less exposed external position with big ( 50 % at least ) dollar depreciation . within the budget , this pays for the favorable effect of devaluation on government oil revenues .
consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing major human and economic costs and impeding development in poor countries alike . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues , they should be a top priority . washington , dc , millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing severe water-related challenges – from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . the costs are staggering : the thousands of child deaths each day , with an annual economic loss estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double the global level of official development assistance .
but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communications links within their communities , and are thus the most adept at organizing effective partnerships to address and resolve local issues . when such policies fail , citizens are left with mayors to charge them . events in france are also pointing to the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination and that promote social equality . but all public actors , not just policing , must respond to urban problems . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , for they are on the front lines in implementing urban politics .
in europe , by contrast , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . the welfare state , too , is being undermined . the american example , the world ’s only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . replacing earnings via unemployment compensation ( after tax adjustment ) hits 70 % and up . in america , the era of welfare is now limited , and those who did not work for years suddenly must do so .
zurich – repeatedly in recent years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . in july 2010 , the combined total of 439 nuclear-power plants with net installed capacity of 37,038 gw ( e ) connected to various national electric power grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) more than in early 2006 . roughly 16 % of the world ’s total energy needs ( up from 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) are now meeting with electric power . yet , so far , the renaissance has never seemed to be coming . roughly 16 % of the world ’s total energy needs ( up from 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) are now meeting with electric power .
article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s “ advice and consent , ” including the nomination of senior officials . presumably , nobody , 225 years ago , had any idea that the number of officials deemed to require senate confirmation would end up to 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete . in many cases , the process will not be pretty much . denver – the united states ’ constitution , which turned 225 years last summer – is a remarkable document : the provisions of the eighteenth-century text continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers requiring the senate ’s “ advice and consent , ” including the nomination of senior officials .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy and raises the same question of european solidarity . in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , for example , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or cut their consumption a little . as a recent study by bruegel showed , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with eu gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard supplies as a matter of shared concern , rather than an issue that each country needs to address on its own . but this sense of solidarity has been consistently absent in the eu ’s energy-political discourse .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian equipment at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives ’ house of representatives . the us department of justice under president donald trump appears to be perpetuating this tradition .
as the united kingdom ’s home grid operators have discovered , a small decline in electricity consumption does not translate into fewer off-grid energy wakes into the grid , thereby failing to reduce emissions . hypothetically , switching off the lights for one hour would cut co2 emissions from coal-fired power plants worldwide . but , while everyone throughout the world has been cutting all residential lighting , and this translated into co2 reductions , this would be the equivalent of china ’s pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . moreover , during earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand will entail reduced co2 emissions during the hour , but it would offset the surge from firing coal-fired power stations to resume electricity supplies afterwards . in fact , earth hour would cause emissions to rise .
after the organization ’s 2013 elections , in which the kremlin-backed membership candidates failed to perform well , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it was then decided that to secure “ fairness , ” the government would approve all candidates , despite being academics . but it has also apparently been overseeing all forms of construction projects on a massive plot of land adjacent to the headquarters of the us federal security service ( fsb ) , the kgb ’s successor organization , and the us federal protection service . the institute ’s work appears to be at the center of devices reading brain activities . if the us keeps pursuing its scientific-money footprint , it arrive at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) , which held elections last week .
this reinforces the motivation to engage in sensational speculation , however baseless , as occurred in sridevi ’s case . more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence on researching stories and verifying claims . airing of opinions is the cheapest way to fill a posted hour ; ranting anchors scores top trps . so , instead of supplying context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are blasting out of headlines that spur prurience or outrage . the result has been unsettling , to put it mildly .
others , worried about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some even inclined to see a possible “ double-dip ” recession . this is an intriguing debate , but it misses the larger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries placed in charge of some of the most generous imf bailouts ever seen for big financial institutions . those focused on emerging markets cite accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % rise in world output . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries put in charge of some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for big financial institutions .
consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly indicate that the french are the most pessimistic about all europeans when it comes to their country ’s ’s future . one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france , which has elected nicolas sarkozy as its new president , and that is now poised to give his political allies a strong parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . to be sure , this rate alone is insufficient to sustain france ’s current population , but it ’s ’s ’s far stronger than that of its european neighbors , and almost equals that of america . how , then , can it be that people who are so negative about their common future as a nation go about confidently building up private futures within its families ?
new york – a reception in the united states and elsewhere in other advanced economies , thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century , attests to growing anxiety about rising inequality . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity has been broadly shared , with all groups moving forward , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” that have been sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers that everyone would benefit . his book lends further weight to the already overwhelming body of evidence concerning a soaring share of income and wealth at the very top . in fact , his book lends further weight to the already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the soaring share of income and wealth at the very top .
in a completely flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant rise in unemployment ) might have been avoided if resources formerly employed in sales of imported consumer goods could quickly be used to generate exports . in the us , greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry might absorb some unemployed vendors . but shops and showrooms can not easily be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain constrained until enough time passed to construct new hotels , recreational facilities , etc . this gdp drop , though a natural consequence of lower consumer imports is often mistakenly perceived as avoiding it , for it seems to suggest that output is below its “ potential . ” but shops and showrooms can not easily be turned to the specialized and highly skilled workers needed in modern manufacturing .
the output gap in the advanced economies has all but vanished ; inflation is picking up ; and world economic growth is predicted to be its strongest since 2010 . in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to relax fiscal policy . but this year , the united kingdom appears likely to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and that is , assuming that the recent political ruptures did not adjust its fiscal orientation , reflected in its chancellor of the exchequer ’s autumn statements . most observers would agree that the level of government debt is uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies to bring them down . but , just when fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions appeared to call for easing , it is now eased when conditions seem to call for tightening .
second , the 70-year period that began with the automobile ’s widespread diffusion – during which one could get almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in a half-hour or less – is ending . before widespread automobile ownership took place , land prices depended on location , with proximity to the central city or local railroad station carrying a premium . and , with demand high and housing supply fixed – at least in the short run – prices go up . perhaps this steepening of location gradient might have been delayed for ten years had we been willing to shift to denser residential patterns . now , with severe congestion slowing traffic in major cities to crawl , land gradient in housing prices is steep once again .
john maynard keynes famously said , “ in the long run , we are all dead . ” but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations as a reality . that may be true , on a long enough timeline for a long time . in fact , for the euro area , the long run appears to have arrived , and the economy remains alive and kicking . with austerity – which entails deficit reduction , once a recession has ended – recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but , once it is , economic performance is even more stable , because the government ’s accounts are sustainable .
likewise , societies that defer instant consumption in order to save and invest for the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . a country like china , with a high level of saving exceeding local investment needs , may promote investment in other parts of the world that saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and slash saving , they simply join the bad habits of american culture that saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) a famous psychological experiment found that young children who can resist the immediate temptation to consume a marshmallow and thereby gain two marshmallows in the future were likelier to flourish as adults did not . second , both saving and investment flows are global .
my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that 2016-2030 promises to cut co2 emissions by just 0.05 ° celsius ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) by 2100 . yet these “ green-energy ” bikes amount to a victory of empty gestures over substance and reason – which makes them the sadly representative of cop21 itself . this , in turn , makes the deal the costliest of us in us history . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that , if enacted between now and the target date of 2030 , will cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion per year – and perhaps twice as long as policymakers make inefficient policy choices . even if the promised emissions cuts continue over the course of this century , the paris agreement would halve the global temperature rise by just 0.17 ° c. this makes the agreement the costliest in us history .
intervention by two american aircraft carriers in taiwan ’s straits in march 1996 humiliated the chinese , who had been forced to suspend intimidating taiwan with missile tests . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , china ’s early this year had bought off two of its modern destroyers , alongside anti-ships from russia . an added worry , both for russia and asia , is that the russian government is losing control over the unofficial , black market flows to china . russia , having seen its gross domestic product fall by 40 % since communism ’s ’s end , needs to preserve its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenues . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , china ’s early this year has been buying off two of its modern destroyers , alongside anti-ships from russia .
that could take all of us to the brink of a slippery slope . but there is nothing typical about the pressures that are likely to continue to squeezing american families long after november 6 . china bashers typically change its tune after the us presidential elections . both obama and romney run the risks of painting itself into a corner when it comes to china . unanswered , however , is what comes next .
but rising individualism – a focus on one ’s own aspirations and economic prosperity – in many countries poses a stubborn obstacle to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people , terrifyingly apparent in america ’s health-care debate , is now undermining the very foundations of what a modern , democratic society has become . they are people who , in some ways , lacked full citizenship that demanded it , and who redefined the political order by obtaining it . today , the great challenge is to calm concerns that our traditions are being undermined ; reach beyond those approaching our lands from other countries ; and find ways to re-create our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , we can develop a sense that we belong together , albeit our reasons for believing so may be different .
but halappanavar and her husband were then reported to have said that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , leaving the process out of the question . the halappanavar case thus reveres western stereotype in eastern societies as the preserves of superstition and religious extremism . the protests in lhasa imposed prime minister enda kenny on the spot , with activists like those in india arguing that halappanavar had died because of a theocratic approach to health care . iranian abortion-rights activists note that , legally , the fetus ’s life does not take precedence over maternal life in their country , but it takes precedence over maternal health , a distinction that america ’s abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . halappanavar has died from september onward , to which her family is certain would not develop if the termination .
one source of hope stems from abe ’s ’s landslide victory in a recent snap general election that grants him the political capital to reach out to park a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more obviously for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to leave historic grievances out of official policy . that explains why park has sought closer ties with china , despite south korea ’s ’s ’s natural regional partner to a democratic japan . but , to some extent , the historical legacies may gain excessive leverage , the overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices . japan and south korea can not change the past , either . all countries ’ legitimizing narratives are ending historical reality and myth .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , stock markets are recovering somewhat . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may only prove to be a temporary improvement in expectations , rather than a sign of steady recovery , because the size of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is likely to be enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs on financial claims in this crisis will stand at $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european union , and the united kingdom – of which america alone will have to absorb $ 2.7 trillion . bank shares in particular are rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least a fraction of their government-issued capital . price/earnings ratios are gradually climbing to their long-run average of $ 16 .
thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 , per capita income has remained essentially the same , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of its population . conceived , perhaps with its best intentions , morales ’s model offers hope for bolivia ’s poorest people ; but it will merely pave the way for frustrated hopes – also nothing new in bolivia . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be squandered , because projects tend to pass cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , generously delivered by mother nature . a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to failure , for it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . conceived , perhaps with its best intentions , morales ’s model offers hope to bolivia ’s poorest people ; but it will merely pave the way for frustrated hopes – also nothing new in bolivia .
in recent years , some of those being drawn into islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary instruments , from car manufacturers and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . even though violent extremists are an ultra-muslim minority , their actions have fueled growing mistrust of french society . making matters worse still , a successful military campaign against isis is fueling new anxiety about violent extremists returning from syria . and a similar fear of homegrown extremism may well follow in many other european countries . still , a majority of french citizens remain deeply worried about terrorist attacks not only from abroad , but from people living in france , often with french citizenship .
achieving the sdgs will require far more financing than is currently on offer . as it stands , the global annual financing gap for education totals nearly $ 40 billion . while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs despite the strain on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from national education systems , or assign them to separate facilities . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees , adopted by un member states last december , are pointing the way to address this challenge . this entrenches disadvantage and hampers social integration .
the international monetary fund has been lending asian intra-regional trade as the leading factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . but the argument should not be about whether to provide aid – no one can question the many achievements brought on by aids , or its importance to providing a safety net for those who would otherwise be left to suffer . africa , with its enormous and often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path . the debate over the failure of international aid to generate development , coupled with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments against development assistance . africa , with its enormous and often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on friction between the uk and the united states . the white house issued statements urging the british government to “ use its voice to push for acceptance of high standards . ” in the uk , the diplomatic spat has served as an opportunity for the british press to air criticism from those who believe that the us government should adopt a stronger stance toward china . and one senior american administration official has been quoted accusing the uk of “ the continued accommodation of china that is not the best way to engage in rising power . ” in fact , it is america that is advocating a flawed approach .
french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to rekindle growth through protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and enormous investment in public infrastructure , so what more can the socialists ask ? indeed , it is hard to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from the far left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . since george w. bush has shown the path toward bank nationalization , massive public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wengle room . under remedies , the socialists are offering nothing more than the keynesian solutions that the right is now proposing . the socialists are accusing greedy financiers , but who are not ?
a protracted recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes achieving either fiscal or reform objectives increasingly difficult , if not impossible . moreover , they oppose key changes to the european union ’s ’s economic governance . the burden of adjustment can not fall exclusively on deficit countries – unless , that is , the moral component of “ punishment ” in the eu takes its place . core countries , led by germany , mistrust the over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reforms when their financing conditions are eased . they are also demanding more rapid implementation of the necessary changes to europe ’s ’s economic governance to establish a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform .
after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance russia , whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . when historians look back at the conflict in syria , they will praise both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis . this does not bode well for any future peace process . moreover , turkey does not seem to be interested in what its allies seem to think . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato yet again by purchasing new-generation us-400 antiaircraft batteries .
one of the positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis has been the elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is the far more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 has ever been . the uk is simply being smart when it upholds its own interests by cooperating with china . space at the table for china could be gained if the eurozone countries , signaling their commitment to a common currency , have agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the whole monetary union . there is , however , a downside to the g-20 ’s emergence : the large number of participants can make deals difficult to reach and get things done . a new g-7 needs to emerge within the g-20 to give china a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight and demands that it assume a commensurate share of global responsibility .
the us could elect an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins during his post ’s 2012 campaign . or it could back a un-american candidate from an allied country . what matters here is that a nominee enjoys trust in america and most other countries , and can reconcile countries ’ ’ diverse interests in a true spirit of multilateralism . this leaves plenty of options for electing the next wbg president . it might choose a dual national , or an immigrant like former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen .
and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s sphere of influence . according to a report by the council of europe ’s council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for sophisticated coordination , has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that “ “ “ “ telling a good china story ” to thrive . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly emboldened his country ’s think tanks to “ advance the chinese narrative ” globally . these include networks like shipping and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which has also recently established the “ national committee on china-us relations . ” in terms of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been particularly consequential .
“ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the sinai american economic forecaster allen . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” say , the sinai american economic forecaster allen are saying . world oil prices have crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since ascended to his mid – $ 50 . but current high levels of oil prices have led forecasters to start getting ahead of their expectations for economic growth . today ’s oil prices continue to average only about two-thirds of real gdp reached during the 1979 iranian revolution , and future markets expect oil prices to drop back and to settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel .
and , owing to increased american scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment in america has already collapsed by an estimated 80 % since its 2017 level . at the same time , the us has grown more suspicious of us-chinese students and scholars who may find itself in a position to steal american technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . likewise , cross-border flows of data and information will be restricted , raising fears of a “ splinternet ” between america and china . and china , for its part , will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-centric international financial system and shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the us dollar . now , new legislative proposals are threatening to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , restricting american venture capital investment , and forcing some chinese firms to delist from american stock exchanges altogether .
american debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without the sinking of the dollar . with tax revenues collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes , dozens of american municipalities may well go to receivership , much as the new york fed did in the 1970 ’s . at the same time , state and municipal finances are in even worse shape . next year will almost certainly see the massive surge in american corporate defaults next year , even as many firms entered a recession with relatively strong balance sheets . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch out a country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz .
well , if the top nine were donated to their earnings , this would be the equivalent of about three months ’ per capita income . to put those astronomical numbers into perspective , i had gabriel tried to affirm the fact that to rank among the top nine earners in the united states , you had to pull in at least $ 150 a second , including time spent eating and sleeping . that is $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 per hour , on average . collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the entire national income of more than 100 countries . how much are america ’s top income earners to make relative comparison to the rest of the world ?
but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . for example , us secretary of state john quincy famously proclaimed on the day of independence in 1821 that the united states ’ “ does not go abroad ” in quest of monsters to destroy . she is a champion and a vindicator only of her own . she is a champion and vindicator only of her own . american power , instead , is viewed as resting on a “ pillar of inspiration ” rather than a “ pillar of action . ”
according to the court , germany ’s laws on freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s campaign , because to make “ the fate of the holocaust ’s victims ” appear banal and trivial . posters bear the point : “ to the animals , all people are nazis ” – a line from the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . on the contrary , it exploited the holocaust – which we would all agree were entirely horrific – to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer , that there are parallels between how the nazis treated jews and the ways we treat animals . peta was obviously not arguing that holocaust victims ’ fates were banal or trivial . posters bear a lead : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a line from the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer .
avoiding the barriers to technological progress requires comprehension and addressing its downsides . for example , as machines become increasingly capable , robots are replacing a growing pool of employees . rather , they are fighting to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether that engaging in dairy farms or running governments . it will not be long before those robots will be able to perform more complex tasks , but it will also learn more quickly than workers can train them . as we continually try to apply new technologies to enhance human and environmental well-being , this distinction is vitally important .
today , portugal is ahead of nearly € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) . that represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of greece ’s output . a lack of export-led growth therefore made a recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been . if greek exports had risen at the same rate as those in portugal ( or spain ) , a recession would have ended by now . moreover , a lack of export-led growth made fiscal adjustment far harder .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country with an even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . on the rare occasions when trade sanctions were weaponized for non-trade reasons , they were a measure of last resort , as was the case with the apartheid south african republic , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support . given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . once trade measures are used indiscriminately to advance non-trade goals , damage to the entire us trading system is done – and potentially enormous . in other words , a trade weapon was deployed neither to address a trade issue , nor as part of a legitimate sanctions regime like that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 .
new delhi – according to the united nations ’ population division , the world ’s human population has been hit by seven billion on october 31 . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one has produced a spike in conferences , seminaries , and learned articles , including ordinary malthusian predictions . after all , the un forecasts that the world ’s population will continue to rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 and surpass ten billion by the end of this century . such projections , by contrast , are misrepresenting the underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth , but of too little .
in exchange , the kremlin has committed itself to supporting – but only after the us constitution is changed – ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , together with its border with russia . the european union is applying pressure on all sides , including russia , where it is holding out the possibility of lifting economic sanctions as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s endorsement of peace-keeping efforts . in exchange , the kremlin has committed itself to supporting – but only after its constitution changes – ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as within its borders with russia . in theory , negotiations are mounting among the government in kyiv and separatist leaders . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade rebel governments to cooperate .
the outcome has been utter failure : military defeat and grave degradation of america ’s moral standing . in march 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii and led it into a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring the regional balance following saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 and hubris and the deceit of today ’s iraq war . in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic allies , after the manipulation of false assertions . in doing so , america has embarked on a preposterous , grand strategy that aims no less to simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s ’s ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and aiding democracy throughout the arab world .
such programs were fine , the argument goes , for the industrialized economies of the great depression and the post-world war ii generation ; but they became obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economy . proponents of this argument propose a different kind of model . just as corporations today are far happier supporting workers ’ pensions by contributing to staff private-sector accounts , so governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . the value of such accounts would fluctuate with the us market , rather than rest on a defined-benefit scheme that ensures the fixed real sum of the resources at which they are available for retirement . one of the strangest claims made in social-insurance debates now roiling the world ’s richest countries is the case that government-defined-benefit pension programs ( for example , america ’s social-security system ) are outmoded .
if europe allowed these debts to migrate from the private sector to the public sector , a well-established pattern over the last half-century is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including a massive run-up in its debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of the misguided troika programs foisted on it . so it is not debt restructuring , but its absence , that is “ immoral . ” does anyone in their own right minds believe that any country would willingly impose itself through what greece went through , just to gain a free ride by its creditors ? if there is some moral hazard , it is on the part of eu lenders , especially the private sector , that was bailed out repeatedly .
if europe , china , and other trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs that they would simply reduce their own gains from trade , without reaping some of the advantages of protectionism . neither scenario makes a lot of sense today . europe and china have little interest in depressing the world ’s prices of their imports , or at the resulting revenues . while some euro-zone countries suffer from high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism may do for those expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do better . employment considerations are not a matter of headline issues , either .
perhaps this is even the view held by obama himself , who is why he is playing for time , desperately turning over the approval of an attack on syria to america ’s national people ’s congress . this is the view held by many people in syria , even among insurgents . it is also the view held by the majority in the us by the majority of people . saving obama ’s honor hardly appears to be worth this risk . it is the view held by the majority of people in europe .
and , with such a goal , it is not very hard to poke holes and pile upon jews . it is this kind of god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens his attacks . but we tend to retain to adulthood the same views of god that we formed in childhood . leave aside the fact that you can make an even stronger case against godlessness – recall the atheist totalitarians atrocities in the twentieth century – and consider the assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts implies that they deny science and reason . the ancient man with long beard watches over us , and most of us retain a pretty literal view of the stories being told in the bible ’s new testament .
at the same time , the complex command chain envisaged for the au-un force force recalls some of the worst features of the nato-russia operation in former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . but the un has found it hard to attract sufficient volunteers for such a force , as foreign governments acceded to sudanese demands that a hybrid force remain predominantly african . au land-based commanders would retain tactical control , a joint au-un command would exercise operational oversight , and the un would establish force ’s overall strategic objectives . their preferred model calls to grant the un funding and most other mission support , while enabling the au to retain its leadership role . many western governments , however , refuse to place their powers under the au command , owing to their perceived vulnerabilities , and have conditioned further support for darfur ’s peacekeeping operations on the un assuming control .
new york – there has been a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration after a recent meeting of the ecb ’s governing council and us federal reserve board chair janet yellen ’s first testimony to congress : both asserted that their policy decisions would address only domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to substantial spillover effects from the advanced economies ’ monetary policies , are on their own . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of the third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) , brazilian finance minister guido mantega , accused the advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” this confirms what the emerging-country authorities have known for some time . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused the advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ”
these are simplistic assertions , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s ’s role in yemen and , indeed , throughout the arab world . saudi arabia is not out to receive the zaidis . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against its poorest people . others have claimed that the struggle against the houthis – the zaidi shia-led shia-led religious-political movement – is only one element in the wider shia war that saudi arabia has supposedly been waging . riyadh – saudi arabia , for its part , has compiled some criticism lately for its leading role in opposing the houthi war in yemen .
most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of both values and ideas ? south korea has been tightening its military alliance with america , japan has backed down from a move to obtain the us to shift its marine airbase away from okinawa , and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer ties to the us . but , in order to dismember america and assume the mantle of its leadership in asia , china needs to do more than to pursue its own interests or contain its potential rivals . south korea has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its own national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics . far from answering this question , china ’s overly assertive policies have proven to be a boon to america in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia .
those concerned about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that a growing number of voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and promotes their families . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries follow suit . lithuania implemented a less-than-generous version of the family 500 + in 2018 . and , while women ’s employment rates have declined as women left minimum-wage jobs , wages , especially for store of retail sales , have risen sharply . rather than borrow to pay for expensive “ school sets ” students are obligated to purchase , poles have used their € 500 +1 +3 , instead .
to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . it thus comes as little surprise that there is still no peace between israelis and palestinians , despite the myriad diplomatic undertakings of the united states , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties themselves . that can make a resolution easier to enact but harder to act . to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . different people are reading it to mean different things .
that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . instead , georgia ’s long-run economic success will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is necessary in the united states or italy . baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline , which will bypass russia when it ends up doing so , can not re-define the country ’s economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze sought . on the contrary , this should become less a burden on bilateral relations as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us , and the european union . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also obviously reflects georgia ’s pro-western strategic orientation .
europe is not a monolith , but , in many areas , it can still act coherently , even without a comprehensive agreement . to be sure , none of this implies that an international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division may be overcome if the will arise . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas it can still act coherently , even without a comprehensive agreement . whether an outlier is germany or another eu member state , a division needs not be fateful .
until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa had been unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged 16 years behind developing-country averages , 14 years behind countries in south asia and 21 years behind countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? land has been relatively plentiful , and has been allocated by tribal chiefs , with no regard for western-style property rights . in combination , gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and higher levels of education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the developed-country average , 11 % below south asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below latin america and the caribbean .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and mounting worries about food security have sparked anxieties worldwide . failure to lay the groundwork for food insecurity on the table fills parents with a profound sense of foreboding . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher share of their income on food , they suffer the worst effects , raising the risk that years of progress toward poverty reduction might be reversed . meanwhile , failure to address solutions that alleviate growing pressure on supplies , hunger , and malnutrition will intensify . ostensibly unalterable factors generating these record-setting rises in food prices – a shift toward higher protein diets in many countries , a growing population , greater reliance on biofuels , and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay .
as harvard ’s ’s ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” ” – such as financial-management systems and procurement rules – they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do what they are established to do . this is not an easy task when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . it involves creating a shared sense of our own , ” a envisioned community on whose behalf the state behaves . and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up encouraging : creating organizations that are more obsessed with abiding by the new , burdensome processes than they are with achieving their stated aims . as francis fukuyama has noted , the evolution of a competent state that is accountable and governed by the rule of law is one of human civilization ’s achievements .
with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from compelling . turkey is experiencing a refugee crisis that dwarfs that confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and the heightened tensions with the kremlin ; following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november . likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a kind of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of itself as constituting a great power . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and immense funds of his office to lay claim credit for rebuilding his country ’s domestic pride , especially as he tries to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . by 2014 , he took over the presidential palace , surrounding himself with a watch that means to evoke ottoman splendor , a reasonably transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments on the ground according to his own – much less his country ’s –
and at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa in south africa , nearly 900 eminent businessmen in america , europe , asia , and africa met with a new political leadership to chart a path forward . it is on most measures , a couple of decades , if not centuries , or more , behind advanced economies in economic organization and income levels . africa has a long road forward . president bill clinton ’s trip to africa has highlighted to americans -- usually most of africa ’s neglectful , except when it was during a deep crisis -- the dramatic change that is underway on the continent . of course , intentions and outcomes are two distinct matters .
in the past hundred years , contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe , and the cold war may well have done just that . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran goes : “ once man loses his faculty of indifference he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into the god of consequence are incalculable . ” the moment you believe “ better dead than red ” you are in trouble . dying to save a home , a family or a country may become rational . but martyrdom is both different and dangerous .
at a time when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for no one at all . russia is in no position to develop an alternative international system ; but , as long as putin continues to pursue an outdated , antagonistic foreign policy , it may undermine the existing one . for that , it must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . at a time when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for no one . if putin is serious about diversifying and bolstering russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving his country ’s lives , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , particularly from the west .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions mark the wrench in the wheels of globalization ? unions ’ rising influence are visible in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise minimum wages for postal employees ; a few american presidential candidates have ’ open-ended miseries regarding free trade and immigration ; and china ’s nascent worries about labor standards . together with their political clout , trade unions ’ intellectual respectability are also experiencing a populist renaissance . or will their rising strength serve to ensure that globalization is made more sustainable by fostering great equality and fairness ? one way or another , trade unions stand to be seen as a major wildcard in shaping the evolution of the us economic system in 2008 and beyond .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has spawned two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate the global hydro-export market . sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western equipment suppliers , like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to control half of the market . second , state-run hydropower industries ’s rising clout within china have led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments . yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity considerably by damming international rivers have embroiled in water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea .
during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should attempt to “ roll back ” the soviet union , bring down the communist system and replaced it with democratic capitalism . others saw this as being too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear arms , with america ’s reaction to a policy of containment , worked to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . but no debate is more persistent than that among those who believe that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence other states ’ external behavior and those that hold that it should be to shape their inner nature . this debate among the “ realists ” and the “ idealists ” is both intense and long-standing . new york – there are plenty of recurring debates in american foreign policy – for example , isolationism versus internationalism and unilateralism versus multilateralism .
until last month , may avoided defining this phrase , for fear of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . she has also recognized that any privileged approach to eu markets will require budget contributions , as with norway and switzerland . but in her florence speech , may has promised british businesses something close to the current level of access to eu markets . second , a british budget offer would be a powerful tool for creating a “ deep and special partnership ” with europe , which may claims is her ultimate goal . if britain ’s transition payments continued to exceed its current level of € 10 billion over the next five or six years realistically demanded to negotiate a permanent commercial relationship , they would add up to that amount .
the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( ttip ) , for example , took seven years to hash out the eu and nearly scotched the parliament of belgium ’s wallonia region . many of the 52 % of britons who voted to leave want to remain in the single market , because are all of those who voted for remain . perhaps there is no “ phased implementation ” of a trade deal that has not been finalized , so uk-based car companies , financial institutions , and other firms that export to the eu now should start preparing for a “ cliff edge ” that may want to avoid . perhaps there is no electoral mandate for pursuing a hard brexit . even if may ’s ability to strike an exit deal is impossible to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-sector trade deal under two years .
for the first time , there is lively and smart debate about this issue , both at the heart of the middle east ’s problems . the israeli-palestinian issue is crucial for all of the obvious reasons . for the first time , there is lively and smart debate about this issue that lies at the heart of the middle east ’s problems . open societies are incompatible with closed economies , so that they are the most vulnerable to globalization . a well-functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs , and schools that train large young populations for today ’s inter-connected world are prerequisites of progress .
this demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to predict its victory over the more talkative ponta . the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted that fact ’s ’s ’s salience for the establishment , although the orthodox leaders who backed ponta quickly adjusted its rhetoric to promote tolerance and cooperation . in his many successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguished from the charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanian forces are accustomed , demonstrated as a sober , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . but iohannis different not only in his political approach ; he is an evangelical lutheran in a predominantly orthodox country . the electorate seemed weary of the lingering clash between ceausescu and the ponta , and , more generally , of the noisy , nasty , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political scene became .
british prime minister david cameron has introduced the case for measuring happiness in national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to promote citizen well-being . the dalai lama recently helped launch a series of such courses in london , developed through action for happiness , an organization that i helped find . at the same time , whole societies can attempt to advance the cause of happiness . how countries are governed has an enormous impact on happiness . some can be learned or cultivated , and courses that train positive mental habits like appreciating things that matter or avoiding dwelling on setbacks have shown measurable improvements in well-being .
the new world order gave way to the order-less world , in which trustworthiness and unpredictability gave way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle commitments . all of this raises a key question : does the us even need an overarching design for its own foreign policy ? israel is , however , a tiny fraction of this overall pattern . more recently , america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia has taken place on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons onslaught that has left at least 1,400 people dead . if the outcome is to make its foreign policy less reliable and predictable – or worse , susceptible to misunderstanding then it certainly does n’t .
most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and dramatic economic financialization , have accelerated dangerously since around 2004 . thatcher himself was no enthusiast for credit , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in a credit card . ” the financial services act of 1986 brought an end to the pure regime of self-regulation . financial interests opposed it vigorously at a time , viewing it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , although they were unable to specify just how prolonged that wedge would ultimately become . most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and dramatic economic financialization , have accelerated dangerously since around 2004 .
alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may well conclude that he has no alternative but to go it alone . a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences . there is a better way to prevent the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : the “ wmd-free zones , ” built on a system of disincentives that range from economic and technological support to countries that join , as well as security guarantees from the united nations security council ’s ’s permanent members . at the same time , the zone should enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to stay out , and , once again , backed by the security council ’s ’s permanent members , impose military sanctions on those trying to develop wmds . a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s ’s civil war . more recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto a united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to dominate , its forces will obliterate the remaining sunni rebellions , at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , bloodletting will flow again . united nations reports of atrocity crimes , the internet ’s images of assaults on civilians and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our hearts . but what is to be done , and by whom ?
for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks of nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant was supposed to believe otherwise . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s countries to stay focused on questions of governance and capacity-building , human rights , and how to create economies responsive to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better quality of life . now that raucous regional positions are joined to raucous american elections season ( where no issue is voted out of the political arena ) , the task for assembling such components will become even more difficult . it is too soon to assess the historic effect of the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have little to do with it . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public ’s rising expectations , and their willingness to get behind the peace process takes a back seat to that struggle .
london – vulnerable communities are facing the brunt of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe drought and flooding . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp – and those numbers are considerably higher when informal and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) are included . to help fragile communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should back up to support small and medium-size businesses . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people out of poverty by 2030 . when an sme builds on its own climate resilience , it can cascading effects within communities around it .
professor claufert kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending as much as $ 14 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits – from reduced warming – from around $ 1.4 trillion to about three times higher . likewise , we could place a greater emphasis on black carbon cuts , considered to be responsible for as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of arctic melting . and , because methane is a far shorter-lived natural gas than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst effects of short-term warming via its mitigation . cutting methane is , in fact , cheaper than cutting carbon emissions . agricultural output accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also generate gas .
in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square in order to demand more rights , embrace a symbol resembling the statue of liberty . today , too , it is not america ’s ’s ’s military strength , which threatens or challenge china , but rather its enduring attraction of the “ american dream . ” it not only needs to live with the realities of american power ; it must also reflect on the american ideal . china , however , may become more difficult as it is . it has never had to come to terms with others as equals , unlike the traditional european powers that have done so for centuries .
yet , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would represent a power of a similar magnitude . a stronger and more unified europe , the argument goes , could then rival america and china in most domains , including “ weaponize ” its economic means to further its geostrategic goals . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , that is why europe could make such a g-3 world a reality . first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration , when most major decisions within the bloc still require unanimity among its member states . yet europe ’s leaders tempted by the prospect of a g-3 world must address two related fears .
after all , this is how the us administration has been dealing with canada and mexico . trump has temporarily exempted those two countries from us tariffs , but now expects concessions from them within his administration to renegotiate the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . regulatory divergences constitute a far more important obstacle to us-european trade than tariffs . whereas america has , on average , less tariff protections than europe , the gap is minor ( europe ’s unweighted customs tariff averages 5.2 % versus 3.5 % for the us ) . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific industries .
how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their fee for a diagnostic test that might be fair enough , but also to deny any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay it a license fee ? do n’t i have rights of control over my own body ? we do n’t need to believe in genetic determinism to find this argument compelling . proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most fundamental features of an individual 's genetic identity should not be enforceable . do n’t i have the rights of control over my own body ?
instead , they argued , we should “ end our demand for paid sex ” – but without explaining how this is to be done . in species that reproduce sexually , sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest – and most pervasive – aspirations . at the same time , there has been opposition from some feminist organizations that have accused amnesty for upholding “ pimps ” rights and johns ” ( “ d ) . ” for this reason , the international secretariat of the global alliance against traffic in women applauded amnesty international for promoting decriminalization . the men , for their part , are no exception to this respect .
since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic global demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . for a wide range of goods , automation implies that manufacturing locations and outsourcing decisions no longer depend on labor costs . but deeper structural changes also play a role . propelled by demand and outsourcing from advanced economies , emerging markets have won a growing share of soaring trade in goods ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . as a result , many companies are simplifying and shoring up their supply chains .
what it does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan – could undercut its basing strategy . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s ’s ’s actions in ukraine to talk of withdrawal from afghanistan , whether the security situation warrants it or not . the us evidently believes that a sustained us military presence in afghanistan is in its own best interest . according to rice , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops sends the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that will embolden russian president vladimir putin further . yet there is strong bipartisan american support for retaining america ’s military bases in afghanistan as a means of projecting hard power , and the increasingly charged clash between america and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably .
according to waszczykowski , poland not only “ must drastically reduce [ its ] level of trust in the eu , ” ” but “ “ must also begin to pursue negative policy , ” by blocking other initiatives or playing a very aggressive game . such infantile plotters have become all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused to publicize polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as though this would render them legally non-binding . indeed , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy , by refusing to sign off on a summit ’s official track record , as if that would render the eu ’s outcome inconsequential to poland . the government has no doubt paralyzed the court , thus undermining the rule of law in poland . in a sign of what is to come , poland ’s ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told a tabloid superekspres following a summit that the eu was pursuing a policy of double standards and deceptions .
indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and secure and dependable nuclear power . this will require massive investment in new technologies and resources , rather than a “ fight to finish ” finish ” over middle eastern oil . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – including food production , wind power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels – but opportunities for greatly increased use of inexpensive , widely available , and ecologically friendly solar power – are enormous . solar radiation amounts to about 10,000 times our current use of energy . important energy technologies will incorporate shifting coal to drier liquids ( for example , gasoline ) , use of tar sands and oil , and growth to non-fossil-fuel energy sources .
in the late century , japan ’s spectacular performance not only made the japanese rich richer , but also strengthened the country ’s soft power . asia ’s ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success . in the 1950 ’s , asia had conjured up images of poverty and starvation . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you pursue photos of chairman mao , you ai will make it with anyone anyhow to do so . ” there was brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru jackets and maoist revolution but short .
likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small and medium-size companies ( smes ) – not to cut funding for important research programs like the eu horizon 2020 . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transportation links . but , with front-loaded austerity and eu countries seeking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the budget ’s shape , which ensures that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the proposed eu budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including the expansion of high-speed broadband networks to rural areas and the development of transportation and energy infrastructure . but the eu can add significant value by coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale and avoiding duplicity in national spending .
in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will become even more muted . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look to the ccp ’s long track record of abuses . the french were then rewarded by a string of lucrative deals in china . france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed by china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , china responded by canceling the danish trading mission .
it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods like vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . and it brings people together to work to provide universal health coverage and ensure everyone ’s right to health . the global agenda in this area determines the norms and norms that shape how public and private actors support health , fight disease , and administer care . under the sdg framework , separating gender and health issues are intermixed , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises regularly , or has access to nutritious food .
“ each of us , ” ” noted sandra day o’connor , america ’s first female supreme court member , who was renowned for not wanting to be perceived as “ female ” justice , “ lead to our job , whatever it ’s , our lifetime of experience , and our values . ” in other words , women are bringing fresh perspective , heard clearly only when a critical mass of them is present in any institution . still , just a plurality of women has an impact . for example , studies of america ’s courts with multiple judges demonstrate that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is on the bench and substantially more willing when she adds her second woman to her birth . consider a woman ’s perspective on conflict .
ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds , however , that getting one ’s ’s hands dirty in this manner is “ often the right thing to do . ” our arms become dirty as we help a terrorist or a dictator . our hands become dirty as we help a terrorist or a dictator .
with the new wahhabi madrasas popping over everywhere in yemen , owing to saudi financial support , it is little wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has been growing exponentially . since then , yemeni labor has been banned from saudi arabia . but , in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis were expelled because they were perceived as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy gone awry – its propagation for the export of the sunni wahhabi form of islam . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies .
independently , honjo and his colleagues identified yet another protein that performs a similar function . for some cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary for some patients , enabling those on the verge of death to live healthy lives with undetectable disease traces . such fundamental studies have now led to the development of new , powerful anti-cancer immunotherapies that are effective against cancer . yet the immunotherapy revolution remains in its infancy , for example . yet there is a lot to be learned about what we have yet to learn .
the good news is that , if any place has proven to be able to innovate , it is silicon valley . the only way to evolve is through adaptation to new environmental pressures , and now silicon valley – owing largely to its own behavior – faces plenty of it . but it has followed this approach on the macro level , as well as on issues elsewhere in the us economy , without scrutiny . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start applying their skill at innovation , as well as their sense of pride in “ breaking things ” ” ” – to themselves . unless it changes , they will be overhauled .
for starters , we have trained farmers how to improve their soil by expanding legume crops , the residues of which can be employed like goat fodder . recognizing the advantages of such practices , farmers have immediately begun to increase crop density , applying manure and rotating crops , thereby boosting yields and producing more fodder for healthier goats . here , too , the platform for innovation helps to do so . establishing a structured , goat market helps to generate a positive feedback loop . when farmers are confident that their goats will not be stolen and can sell them at a decent price , they are better able to invest in improvements in their production system .
in the early nineteenth century , wages had stagnated for almost 50 years before picking up again . but , for the lower-skilled workers sector , the transition that is underway today could prove only as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should uphold five imperatives . with anxiety over heightened inequality already increasing , governments will need to rethink policies to provide income and job-transition support to displaced workers . that may well have been an extreme situation for the past .
at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential and failure to implement many decisions . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked with rwandan president paul kagame with the pan-african committee of experts that he has nominated – through an inclusive consultative process – that includes african leaders and other stakeholders . fortunately , the mindsets are starting to shift . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations produced by kagame and a pan-african committee of experts that he appointed through an inclusive consultative process that includes african leaders and other stakeholders . this is largely a matter of mindset , not means .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues bonds in new york , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are not destined to intervene in the currency market by buying and selling reserves . suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond , using the dollars to enlarge one of its modern , highly competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk to asia . more fundamentally , why do we think of reserves differently than we think of other assets on our national balance sheets ? at best , market participants will applaud the decision ; at worst , they will be indifferent because brazil ’s net debt position will not change .
while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse and setting the stage for a digital future . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse and setting the stage for a digital future . the consequences are already beginning to demonstrate : according to the 2016 bloomberg innovation index , the us is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having plummeted two spots since 2015 . in france , the government has invested in an extensive national digital plan , which is expected to generate 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade .
beyond funding constraints , women are facing high social and cultural barriers to political participation . fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this problem . in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral lists receive a 30 % supplement from national budgets . likewise , in iran , political parties lose 50 % of their state-funded financing if their candidate pool comprises less than 30 % of either gender . more specifically , greater care obligations , reinforced by public perceptions of a “ woman ’s ’s role , ” severely undermined women ’s ability to run for public office .
moreover , as is so often the case , us sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful , rather than motivate iran ’s leaders to seek a deal . that may well have been true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , genuinely accountable to the people ’s will . but there is scant evidence to suggest that sanctions have done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . an international sanctions regime imposed on iran would appear to have received aid from the latter rather than from the former . by all accounts , iran is a society profoundly divided among those who want its homeland to be a respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing is better served by its nuclear-weapons program .
the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model ” – will shape public-private partnerships among governments , research institutions , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . one hopes that the paris agreement is shaping up to be a change of course . as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engagement by both the public and the private sector . long-term , patient financing must also be made available to help companies minimize insecurity and bridging the so-called death valley among basic research and commercialization . as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engagement by both the public and the private sector .
in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our household budgets – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and youth . moreover , we plan to provide up to 90 % of our financing for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system from now to 2030 . but these challenges will not be addressed , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . even so , senegal is fighting all of the costs of strengthening its education system . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children – mainly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – in education .
as eu member states advance this path , propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues to eliminate wasteful spending and optimize of resource use . europe ’s ’s defense industry will be unable to generate progress without a well-functioning market-based , open , transparent , and equal opportunity for all of its european suppliers . a critical component in europe ’s coordination and proper functioning security and defense policy is its european defense agency . advances in defense industries are leading to important positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investments in research and development that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . the goal must be to boost european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the foundations of global security .
a single reef shark that frequents major dive sites in palau are worth about $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over his or her lifetime ; the same shark would be worth about $ 108 dead . in guangzhou ’s southern city , the center for china ’s shark-fin trade , sellers , reported a 82 % decline in sales over the past two years . a single reef shark , which frequents major dive sites in palau , yields roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over his or her lifetime ; the same shark would be worth some $ 108 dead . a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given the shark ’s economic value plummets when it is killed .
because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , and split regions among themselves . to accomplish this with the minimal fuss that he muzzled both the press and the electronic media . the truth is that he exploited a negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and a russian-style plunder of state characteristics by his loyalists ’ coterie . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , dealing with the dictator of milosevic was straightforward . tudjman excuse that croatia needed to concentrate power in its struggle against serbian aggression .
hong kong ’s government could call for changes to increased openness and fairness , by which the chief executive is chosen , without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . the current proposed arrangements would permit the chinese government to veto any candidate that it dislikes , spurring criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style elections : “ you can vote for anyone to decide . ” since 1997 , 55-61 % of voters have cast their ballot box for democratic candidates in the legislative council elections . its membership is chosen by only 7 % of hong kong ’s total electorate , and its voting practices are seeking to block the nomination of any candidate who can harbor democratic sympathies . according to a fundamental law , the electoral committee should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates .
reformers insist that overwhelming majorities support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would need to become pragmatic in order to compete for power and govern . but in gaza , local elections soon afterward , the radical islamists who use terrorism have won seven out of ten municipal councils . in promoting democracy , liberals dismiss the argument used by today ’s rulers that free elections would be the latest , because islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes . january ’s palestinian elections won a relatively moderate leader because of his accession to the ruling fatah movement and islamists boycotted the elections . that case is not yet proven .
there is little room for doubt that the clean-tech industry can expect plenty of sunny days ahead . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities are available to make improvements . increasingly , industries are implementing approaches that have ensured success elsewhere in other industries , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . this is the global segment that will convene a growing global need . a shakeout in the clean-tech sector has been tough ; but it has also been typical of emerging technologies , with weeding out weaker players , making the sector more robust .
princeton – the economic gloom surrounding the world in 2008 led many to ask whether the seeming prosperity that preceded it was real . but the gap between the rich and the poor widened , and at least in america , the incomes of the poor and the middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ; amp # 160 ; amp # 160 ; amp # 160 ; amp # 160 ; amp # 160 ; amp # 160 ; amp # 160 ; amp # 160 ; more broadly , the top 1 % of the population prospered . unsurprisingly , many are now skeptical of taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even automakers .
america ’s securities and exchange commission , for one , is already debating such issues , because it analyzes opportunities to respond to investor and business needs on esg issues . given the magnitude of the task , but it is also important to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of such efforts with the relevant standard-setters , us regulators and professional organizations . more recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and chairman of the g20 ’s financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , former new york city ’s mayor and ceo of bloomberg lp have issued an announcement regarding market data on climate science . global awareness on the topic is mounting . their primary goals include enabling companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and key performance indicators ; tracking , prepare for , and disclosure of comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and integrating sustainable production and consumption practices into corporate business strategies and models .
success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ capacity to galvanize the same level of collective collective , concerted action that has enabled them to curb global recession in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis . but outcomes that the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , together with integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance – can not be achieved without political will . specifically , small landholders need new tools that enable them to boost productivity while establishing more sustainable methods of production . this month ’s g20 summit , together with the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro , are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . the pursuit of prosperous , inclusive economies must be coupled with efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security .
new york – the 2008 global financial markets experienced their worst slump since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others bought themselves on a cheap , or survived only after major bailouts . so , what lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst behind the us , or ahead of the us ? major financial institutions went bust ; others were bought on the cheap or survived only after major bailouts .
and it takes only a minute on twitter or cable news to confirm an old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” good news is not news , either , media executives often mutter . add to that a second psychology bias neuroscientists are debating : because our species have evolved to fend off risk , we tend to be more attuned to bad news . and , of course , we tend to remember those horrible photos far longer . we react more acutely to photos of starving children than to report on improving nutrition levels in africa .
china ’s government has apparently begun to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . this thirst for unbiased information underscores the dramatic change brought by the internet to china ’s political landscape . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information and the right to process it . a “ virtual civil society ” is in the making . insightful bloggers attracts considerably more clicks than do their official mouthpieces .
if a expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect it to reduce china ’s trade surplus with the us . but devoting resources to encourage imports – as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai , is actually rare . an annual import expo that will be part of china ’s ’s overall import-substitution strategy , attracted thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of large orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises , which the us government tasked with making expo ’s success . new york – countries often devote public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but that need not be the case at all .
it is the key to understanding both the past and the future of international relations . london – the historian norman stone who died in june – has always insisted that history ’s students learn foreign languages . its history tells us how it views itself and others as well . language gives access to human beings ’s culture and culture to its history . it is the key to understanding both the past and the future of international relations .
more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins about bombings and hostage taking and “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on that prospect . the first nagging question is this : will elections actually occur next january ? while this scenario is simple , reality is not at all . prime minister isyad allawi , for his part , assures the world that there will be , and president bush echoes his words . the probability that the iraqi elections will be held this coming january must be lower than 50 % , and one can be certain that these will not be likely to be free and fair eu-wide elections .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump has still won commands attention , with russia ’s role shifting increasingly toward center stage . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation that would compel facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who purchase online ads , thereby closing the loopholes that russia has exploited during its recent elections . each new revelation in the investigation of russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign brings the vulnerability of america ’s democratic process to sharper focus . but making amends through technical fixes and public promises to be better corporate citizens will resolve only the most publicized problem . the tougher challenge will be to strengthen the institutions that are vitally important to the workings of democracy , civics education , and local journalism .
but , while import restrictions may ease the pain in some manufacturing districts , they wo n’t stop companies from relocating where the growth opportunities they face are the strongest . in america ’s presidential campaign , trade protection is once again fashionable . and they wo n’t recreate yesterday ’s patterns of development . yet , if the ends are clear , politicians are often clueless . they wo n’t protect workers from technological change ; nor will they do so .
algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , and western governments are reluctant to pursue a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats that produce violent theocrats and refugees re-launching . when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented migrants , two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators – have an inglorious record . getting “ stuck in a transition ” is a third-possible scenario , with libya remaining in the “ euroland zones ” – neither fully-fledged democracy nor dictatorship – but “ semi-free . ” algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , and western governments are reluctant to pursue a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees . but four decades of military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , a majority of whom have never truly benefited from their country ’s ’s ’s wealth or potential .
second , the court ’s staff was overwhelmingly muslim , which meant that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . when a muslim and a non-muslim faced each other in a trial , the muslim enjoyed major perks . but , of course , if they had been involved in a case against a muslim that had to be handled in an islamic court . third , whereas muslims might have been able to testify against one another in a trial , the muslim enjoyed major advantages . first , the training of judges predisposed them to give the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslims .
the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that , if israel were to have the right to attack a osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona . they employ something like a cost/benefit analysis based on a subjective sense of danger . but there is no way to ensure a objective assessment of fear , and even if this were possible , using cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc on the global system of national sovereignty and international law . the better way to ensure a sense of self-defense is to invoke two principles that underlie the rule of law in both domestic and international law . some argue that the real point is the risk of an attack and the destruction that might occur if weapons of mass destruction are deployed .
and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . a critical meeting of the un general assembly will take place in late september for this purpose . the world ’s governments have asked the un secretary general to coordinate the preparation of such goals by the year 2015 to ensure a seamless shift away from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire later this year . with those challenges coming in mind , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to adopt sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . most economies are becoming less equitable , with widening gaps between the very rich and the poor .
an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and generate thriving global demand for a product or service – just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara – is just as much as the entrepreneur ’s next bill gates is . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments look to their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . it is time for diplomats to do the same . today , starbucks employs about 182,000 people worldwide , compared to 50,000 worldwide than facebook , google , and apple combined . they should encourage and encourage job creators and problem solvers , turning development assistance into investment .
when communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland ’s communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into a credible democratic-left parties that had become formidable opponents of the newly-emerging political right . though such politicians often described themselves as “ rightist , ” their real policies , such as that of slovakia , prime minister vladimir meciar , in france , are in a de facto demagogic populist or authoritarian style . political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years of communism have set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary . at the same time , the eu ’s position on the political right in any central european country has been influenced by experiences that are rooted in history and traditions . whereas both the polish and hungarian communist parties have experienced internal liberalization , which has allowed for relatively large semi-official activity zones to take place outside communist control , czechoslovakia following the soviet-led invasion of 1968 has become a rigid neo-stalinist regime .
even a state like california , seen by many as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of its gdp and general obligation debt of just 4 % of gdp . the eu ’s maastricht treaty ’s explicit reserves of this tax-and-transfer authority to member states is a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funding to other eu countries in ways that americans are willing to do among people in different states . a third important difference is that all us states are obligated by their constitutions to balance their annual operating budgets . while the “ rainy day ” funds that are accumulating in boom years are being used to cope with temporary revenues shortfalls , the states of the “ universal obligation ” are limited to capital projects like roads and schools . these limits on the level of sovereign budget deficits are a logical implication of america ’s inability to generate money to fill the fiscal gap .
yet the overwhelming body of evidence suggests that technological change has been a much larger driver in global wage patterns than trade . so , too , let the ’s return to india and china for the first time in the past . i have little doubt that sometime later this century , one could buy professors – perhaps with holographic images – just as easily as one could buy pocket kasparov of chess computers today . i certainly do not feel secure as an economics professor ! globalization proceeded at a rapid pace through much of the last century , and at a particularly accelerating pace during its past two decades .
some empirical studies of cross-country data find net beneficial effects on environmental degradation indicators like local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided that countries have effective governance institutions at the national level , trade , and growth gives them the means to clean up their air . so , is trade globalization , rebalancing , better , or worse for the environment ? specialization in each country enables people to acquire more of what they want , which , particularly at higher income levels , covers cleaner air and water . when trade brings costs , it can benefit from environmental goods just as it benefits other goods .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” referred to an effort to understand what had been occurring at the commanding heights of the soviet union – indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . all of this was “ grammar-school ” compared to efforts to decry the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . kremlinologists have monitored ( to whatever extent possible ) those who were up and who were down among the central soviet leadership . consider what happened on december 17 . great significance have been read into who signed an official document , or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square when reviewing military parades .
in dire , last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over ” reports for a few systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margins of its country ( article iv ) . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise , or the g-20 ’s peer reviews in its recent history . even if massive spillovers are clearly acknowledged , it is hard to see how this exercise will resolve the underlying problem behind a currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . so , what should latin american economies be doing ? they surely have a right to defend , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and the consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially profitable option when capital flows actually appear temporary ) imposing capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies targeting countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing .
if china let its currency float back then , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . east asian countries followed this advice , and for a good reason : they saw the consequences of insufficient reserves . east asian countries followed this advice then , and for a good reason : they saw the consequences of insufficient reserves . the imf had the money that they needed . countries were warned : avoid trade deficits and buildup of reserves because they were the key frontlines of defense .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton ; and obamacare is based on massachusetts ’ health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a variety of energy policies – from widespread climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy standards – 33 states slashed carbon dioxide emissions , while expanding their economies . half of all american states have now legalized marijuana usage in some form , with eight embracing full-throated legalization . half of all american states have now legalized marijuana usage in some form , with eight embracing full-throated legalization . three states implemented laws offering paid family leave , with a fourth on track .
cambridge – “ i want to be a part of it ” – new york city , new york city , ” frank sinatra sang of a city that has attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . but the impact on big cities is driving deeper than economic or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally transform people ’s lives , and even those themselves themselves . in other words , larger cities , higher average wage levels , productivity levels , number of patents per person , crime rates , prevalence of anxiety , and incidence of hiv . in 2010 , geoffrey , together with a team of researchers , discovered that multiple socioeconomic measures – both positive and negative – add to the size of local populations . in a sense , this is not a hard phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with its multicultural populations , transnational corporations and multitude of talented individuals rife with opportunities .
at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the bush administration ’s historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – have hosted america ’s insistence on waiving supplier of responsibility in case of accidental , some regard india ’s spurning of american aircraft as gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india is helping america as well . against this are the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a major new us ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in delivery , training , and operations that have yet to develop . ( it is likely that the eventual winner of the offer will be required to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american companies would not . ) ( it is likely that the eventual winner of the offer will be required to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american companies would not . ) a decision made on technicalities , many of them , would be easier to defend than one based on political considerations .
as a result , large supranational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for fiscal bailouts ) . institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which for a time headed the listing of the world ’s ’s ’s largest international banks , are pruned by the eu ’s directorate general for competition . even more powerful banks are squeezed to increase their capital reserves . in most cases , this means continuing to cut back on lending , exacerbated by the financial crisis ’s impact on the rest of the us economy . in the us , banks that demanded state rescues , european competition rules dictate divestment and downsizing .
the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s “ chicken ” game . and , indeed , just as that exchange of rhetorical fire has unfolded , america has reportedly been preparing to revise its military options for striking north korea . the north koreans were immediately doing just that , threatening to carry out a japanese-controlled us military strike on american territory . more ominous , according to a confidential american intelligence report , north korea has achieved its capability for a miniaturize of nuclear warheads and may have as many as 60 bombs . trump has shot back that america ’s military is “ locked and loaded . ”
the first is that we all owe at least some of our accomplishments to others , given the public goods that society provides . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes who have benefited the most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining the highest salaries , not for moral reasons , but for the sustainability of the system . but do n’t hold your breath waiting for them to agree . two conclusions can be drawn from all of this .
and , sure enough , what we are witnessing now , 16 years after the eurozone ’s institutionalized these relationships , is the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . the economy would suffer because the eurozone ’s economic-policy model was predicated on power relationships that disadvantaged workers . after all , it is extraordinarily inadvisable in greece , a government that is so opposed to the kinds of policies that have done so much to foster inequality in so many advanced countries and that are so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth . when sweden ’s ’s ’s ’s did , swedes said not . they understood that unemployment would surge if the country ’s ’s monetary policy had been set by a central bank that concentrated single-mindedly on inflation ( as well as insufficient attention to financial stability ) .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics have faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first freely elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets in the streets triggering a military coup that ousted him . but his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to centralize power in the hands of the brotherhood and place himself beyond the revision of egypt ’s judiciary , has proven to be his undoing . morsi ’s political ineptitude and a lack of vision in the face of economic collapse , would have been sufficient to diminish the support of his rule . but it is too soon to write down political islam as a competent participant , in a pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a team of korean researchers , published in the journal the study results of research that for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines , specifically tailored to the dna of male and female patients from different ages . both breakthroughs represent a stunning advance in stem cell research . the next day , british researchers at newcastle university reported that they had successfully produced a cloned human embryo using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , which means that they have the capacity to develop into any kind of human tissue . this carries great promise , especially for sufferers of spinal cord injuries and diseases .
china ’s government , on the other hand , has retained the same six-layer administrative structure – beginning with the central government , moving down through the provinces , prefectures , districts , township , and villages – since the founding of the people ’s republic 70 years ago . this includes ramping up its tradable-permit program by lowering the threshold beyond which firms must pay off , and eliminating exemptions for firms or industries . finally , china can lower government spending ( in the medium term ) by making it more efficient for its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of the world ’s largest companies have pursued new technologies to lower employees ’ numbers , from top executives to factory employees , in order to lower costs and enhance efficiency . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability – by supplementing the threshold beyond which firms must pay and remove exemptions for firms or industries .
when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has resumed its capability , such a move would have been unthinkable . indeed , the risks of a world free of nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number of them – are tremendous . nuclear deterrence – a threat to the killing of hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is a concept that does not fit into traditional morals . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and prudent .
the infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of prion replication . the infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of prion replication . as the tragedy unfolded , so far , researchers had acquired greater understanding of the disease . prions seem to defy all the conventional wisdom , surviving pressurepurposed , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c over four hours – treatments that are routinely and reliably used to supplant all well-known viruses and bacteria . furthermore , the prions lack their own genes , including other women .
daniel barenboim is rumored to have abandoned the chicago symphony orchestra partly because he protested against the fundraising claims that were gaining traction . but america ’s experience shows that gaining artistic leaders , like orchestra music executive , to participate in fundraising needs , need not be bad for the artistic side of the labor force . the same goes for fear , too , will happen in europe . some conductors , not wanting to carry the tin cup as they surge their batons , have dismissed important american posts for this reason , feeling that they would interfere with their arts . performing arts advocates in europe point to america , where , among others , music directors of even major orchestras they are now expected to participate fully in fundraising activities and become active in local communities around the orchestras they see .
the council is much more likely to accept the possibility of mounting a punitive program of air strikes – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , republican guard , and other armed-force targets . this would hurt and weaken saddam , establishing unmistakably the message that the un ’s defiance carries severe sanctions . it would be odd to uphold the authority of the council by which it has failed to gain its approval . we should not forswear that option , but ought to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically if not legally vital – might never back an invasion . at the same time , the council could declare that any fresh aggression , or any use , threat , or transfers of wmd , would trigger saddam ’s removal and his pursuit of the international criminal court as an international criminal court like slobodan milosevic .
this time , dr. ahmed , the counterpart of iraq , realized that the game was up . earlier this year , dr. ahmed , the counterpart of iraq , realized that the game was up . soon thereafter , the inspectors were returned to tarmiya . that he would lie to them so brazenly were incomprehensible to his friends on a inspection team . some of the un ’s inspectors , which he knew well , had jlegial terms in visit to vienna .
in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality will rise sharply and then decline – in a inverted “ u ” pattern , or bell , as countries have underwent economic development . but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths about its impact on economic growth . after all , china is now one of the world ’s most unequal countries . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes this assertion more powerfully than any other topic . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness .
pakistan held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is gearing up to hold another term in late 2012 or early 2013 . of course , democracy is always supposed to mean more than periodically holding out free and fair elections . pakistan , for its part , has been taking one more step toward developing a rule-based political system . it must also entail developing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and giving citizens the institutional means to settle disputes . pakistan , for its part , has held one more step toward developing a rules-based political system .
on the contrary , cuba ’s government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalization demands for a society-wide dialogue . that 20 years after that epochal event , the iron curtain remains around cuba making this anniversary poignant . europe ’s peoples are marking the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe in two . to be sure , tourists who crowd cuba ’s ’s ’s ’s beaches are largely uncertain about this iron curtain . but , whatever this ignorance and its economic interests , the eu should insist on releasing political prisoners and using all international institutions to bring pressure on cuba ’s government to comply with cuba ’s human and civil liberties .
brigadier general kyaw hsan , the army ’s representative , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that marchers in the streets were “ bogus monks . ” some have claimed that the uprising in burma is over . but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country . but we are genuine , with thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrating for the peace process . that is what the junta wants to believe in the world to think .
for example , although plato opposed the enslavement of greeks , he – like every other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( the non-greeks ) . today , by contrast , even an emphatically non-philosophical person of moral truths that we now take for granted never materialized to it . yet , although morals has always been at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we now take for granted never occurred to him . after all , he believed that being the “ philosopher ’s ” meant assuming the responsibilities of a moral reformer . but plato would probably be the greatest marvel of the world ’s moral progress .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level social divisions that have emerged as a result of conflict , particularly in violence hubs . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that have characterized rural colombia have gave rise to the farc in the former , with the conflict centered in such areas . here , both local and international civil-society organizations , coupled with regional and municipal governments , have important roles to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking operations that the farc has engaged , may also be viewed as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , security . ) such efforts must be buttressed by progress in another area : rural development , which is the only economic issue addressed in a peace treaty .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , makes headlines worldwide . more than 7.5 million europeans aged 15-24 are neets ” – not in terms of employment , education , or training . more than 7.5 million europeans aged 15-24 are neets ” – not in employment , education , or training . youth unemployment rates above 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to about 30 % in italy , spain , cyprus , latvia , hungary , slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , more than 30 % of job-seekers under the age of 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their prospects for job seekers remain low .
yet america ’s supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to find guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . indeed , if the standards of domestic trade law were applied internationally , perhaps a majority of firms within the us would be guilty of dumping . the us trade negotiators are not even debating eliminating this double standard . the us trade negotiators are not even debating eliminating this double standard . foreign manufacturers are accused of unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic manufacturers .
but libra ’s advantages seem to be as slippery as pisces . if it does , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger a period of sluggish growth and financial instability . facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . the libra project is dangerous like leo , and it will require government regulation to stay in the way of cancer . for emerging economies , this would mean treating dollarization only to catch an even worse case of de-leveraging .
the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . the added cost was not all that large ( around $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( about $ 7 a gallon , including existing taxes ) . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . rising inequality , for example , is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than it is in a low – or no-growth environment , where subset ’s incomes and opportunities are either stagnant or declining . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in developing countries , though the particular dynamics depend on a wide range of factors .
we are now seeing this strategy at work again , as french president vladimir putin has stealthily sought to restore kremlin supremacy over land treated as the “ lost ” lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . to divide the people in order to conquer them is an immoral strategy that has endured throughout the recorded history . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , the russian ’s president has since said that he can work with whatever government ukraine chooses . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent elections , however , putin has clearly revealed to the world his neo-imperialist designs . from alexander the great to stalin the brutal , variants of this strategy were applied to keeping nations in thrall to the will of the emperor .
if those twin deficits are running at a trend pace of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt to the rest of the world – currently at 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years . in any case , the active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing . america runs consistently both a fiscal deficit – with overall spending ( of which defense comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) – far exceeds its per capita income – and a current-account deficit . what it fails to acknowledge is that the us , too , is forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural savings deficits . skinner skinterprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending .
consider , for example , how recent innovations threaten the export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled many developing countries ’ development in recent decades . by investing in “ additive ” labor force , developing countries have been able to scale up their share of global manufacturing activity , job creation , attracting investment , and , to some extent , re-launching a broader industrialization process . but , for firms that have taken advantage of opportunities to reduce costs by shifting production to the developing world , a trade-off has always emerged : offshore production has meant limited ability to respond rapidly to consumer demand shifts . now , technology may offer another option , and it will continue to do so . by using plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries have been able to increase their share in global manufacturing activities , job creation , attract investment , and , in some cases , kick-started a broader industrialization process .
for instance , joyce , my former workmate , has her husband , who is diehard manchester , a diehard united fan . she has changed her furniture , at least twice since she was married off four years ago . couches are stained with beer , and kicked as she cheers her favorite teams . even the wives of men watching the game at home have had other issues to cope with . each season , she breaks down at least one furniture piece when her team loses .
increasingly , such protagonists have become the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational forms of violence and hatred against the other – ethnic or religious minorities who have been demonized and victimized – delineated and guattari broadened the concept of otherness to the vampire . that sets the stage for a paradigmatic shift in our understanding of homicidal monsters like the next one . in fact , has any monster yet to be considered as a potential conveyor of revolutionary ideas ? challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against the other – ethnic or religious minorities who had been demonized and victimized – delineated and guattari extended the concept of otherness to a vampire .
copenhagen – debates about global warming are marked by a growing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . while science has demonstrated that co2 from fossil fuels is heating up to the planet , policymakers remain reluctant to follow through on their advice and cease to build coal-fired power plants . in march , al gore ’s science adviser and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , proclaimed that when it comes to addressing global warming , the “ democratic process does n’t work . ” hansen argues that , “ the first action that people are supposed to take is to usher in a democratic process . ” closing down discussion , however , simply means removing reason from public policy .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election has pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . the campaign-finance legislation has been revised to provide additional government funding to the parties that comply with the quota , reducing the size of parties that do not . a key reason behind the rise of female mps has been the introduction of a quota system whereby south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of its candidates are women . and , though south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the decline reflected subsequent growth in the share of female legislators in other countries . the rise of female mps has led not only to increased female cabinet members , but also to a wide range of policies and institutional improvements targeted mainly by women .
for bingham , the rule of law must be both accessible and – insofar as it is possible – intelligible , clear , and predictable . courts and other official adjudicative bodies should provide fair processes . moreover , state power should be reasonably exercised within good faith , as well as for the purposes for which it has been conferred , with the independent courts and the judicial review of legislation making that government does not cross the boundaries of its authority . everyone should be governed by law , insulated from those ’ personal discretionary powers , and legal disputes should be resolved without prohibitive cost or inordinate delay . there should be equality ahead of the law , combined with adequate protection of fundamental human rights .
in france , the national front , which finished second in the presidential election in 2002 , has been revitalized under marine le pen . in finland , geert wilders of the freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without its support , a minority liberal government would collapse . nor is france a backlash confined to the eurozone ’s members . it is the extreme right that has benefited most from centrists ’ failures . in finland , geert wilders of the freedom party wields ample power to play kingmaker ; without its support , a minority liberal government would collapse .
the fourth factor , of course , is german business interests . german firms are making large amounts of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which collectively amount to germany ’s its largest trade partner . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trading partner in both export and imports . but , here the hungarian tail is wagering the german dog . the eu is paying turkey in euros , while seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its major trade partners since the eu ’s decision to integrate into its co2 emission-control scheme all arrivals to the eu and from its territory , including transcontinental arrivals . the ceos from aircraft manufacturer airbus and the major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in . for both china and the united states , the eu is deeply outraged . airlines will need to acquire emission permits for their flights of co2 emissions . meanwhile , china and the united states are outraged .
i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center at the periphery of europe , free from european responsibilities , but participating fully in its opportunities . yes , special arrangements could be negotiated , but each had to be negotiated individually . but the us was never in any reasonable doubt that being out of europe altogether was an entirely different matter entirely . when the us in government looked closely at the risks to london as a financial center from being outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case for damaging the us . and , to a record level , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its bargaining despite being no member .
but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health if it were able to provide more detailed data breakdowns . it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transitions in middle-income countries and the persistence of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional disruptions in sub-saharan africa . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for health metrics , and reviews that i head raises geospatial maps of disease burdens with groundbreaking resolution levels . policymakers are held accountable , first and foremost , for their constituents whose unique needs they must meet . estimates of local disease burdens will be crucial to combating afflictions like ebola , checking the rising toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting sustainable development goals relating to maternal and infant health in sub-saharan africa .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain will need to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices will have to rise to 20 % relative to the eurozone average . to be sure , if germany were to exit from the common currency , the road back to competitiveness would be easier for southern countries , given that the rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but crisis-stricken countries would remain so for the other competitive countries as the other competitive countries remain . spain , for example , would still need to cut its prices by 22-24 % relative to the new eurozone average . the only way to avoid it would be to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies . viewed from this perspective , crisis countries would not spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained locked into a monetary union comprising competitive countries .
one way to strengthen india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to establish the marine equivalent of the us territorial army , training selected fisherfolk in terms of carrying out search-and-rescue operations . such training , together with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishers and their braving expertise in braving turbulent sea , would compel a very efficient reserve unit to be stationed when disaster strikes . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi dropped out of everyday operations completely in some coastal regions , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s impoverished fishing communities . but perhaps the time has come to consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to longstanding dependency on fishing . another issue that risks being overlooked by targeting urgent and immediate financial relief is coastal communities ’ longer-term economic needs .
ramallah – the united states should stop pressing for a renewal of the palestinian-israeli peace process . make no mistake : this is not an arms call or appeals to violent uprising . but if a single party has a greater interest in a process than the need for peace , something must go wrong . make no mistake : this is not an arms call or appeals to a violent uprising . peace among the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through negotiation .
the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) have created a new organizational architecture for the eu , laying the foundations for political institutions that are equal to europe ’s economic powers . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to transcend a continent ’s historic divisions now requires re-definition of the european project . the treaty of nice ( 2000 ) was the product of a rather poor compromise . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational architecture for the eu , laying the foundations for political institutions that are equal to europe ’s economic powers . the two world wars and cold war ii shaped european integration as a project for peace , defense of the west ’s ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity .
but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . after the government has seized control over independent tv networks , ntv , and k6 , russia ’s media have become vastly duller . part of the explanation for this has been increased official scrutiny , part of the decline in public interest , and part is that russia ’s problems nowadays simply seem less urgent . whenever i enter moscow , i am struck by its new store and buildings . the most recent fad is for officials to sue libel newspapers demanding more than $ 1 million .
true , the united states is not denmark , either . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their people a job that pays a decent wage in order to sustain healthy , happy lives . but it is not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare states so prosperous and what americans can learn from them . according to the oecd country ’s employment rankings , the top seven countries worldwide have welfare economies . one need not be the economist to understand that a country ’s wealth hinges on its share of the population that goes to productive employment in high-value jobs .
berkeley – on my desk right now , us reporter timothy noah ’s ’s ’s ’s novel book the great divergence : america ’s growing inequality crisis and what the us may do about it , and milton and rose director friedman ’s classic free choice : personal statements . back then , friedman made three powerful factual assertions of how the world operates – which seemed true or perhaps true at least arguably true at a time – but that now appears to have seemed pretty wrong . the first claim was that macroeconomic distress results from governments , rather than from an unstable private market , or , rather , that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to generate economic stability was both straightforward and accomplished . considering them collectively , my overwhelming thinking is that friedmans would find their task to justify and advocating small-government libertarianism far more difficult today than they did in 1979 . their case for small-government libertarianism rested overwhelmingly on these claims , and has now been largely crumbled , as the world has turned out , to disagreed about how it operates .
according to the african union ’s high level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa has lost more than $ 50 billion each year from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as base erosion and profit shifting . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as base erosion and profit shifting . the g20 should now follow through on this commitment , and set a clear timetable for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending in onward , and a ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit itself to combating tax evasion and unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa .
most immediately , unit two in south ukraine will reach this point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime expansion . though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibilities , as a signatory to the espoo convention to conduct cross-border environmental impact assessments ( not to mention missing an opportunity to consider potential alternatives to continued the reactor ’s operation ) , no such analyses are expected to take hold . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear facility until a cross-border assessment takes place . the snriu would make this critical policy decision , without key information on the health and environmental risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . three of ukraine ’s nuclear power units are currently operating beyond their design lifetime , with nine others set to reach an end to their intended lifetime within the next five years .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new urban food-production model . at the business level , more than 700 companies with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments under the us , according to the business coalition . and 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to the paris climate agreement , a five-year initiative to engage with the world ’s ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve governance on climate change , curb emissions , and bolster climate-related financial disclosures . as a result , global green-bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making .
to succeed in restoring a robust growth path , east asia needs to deliver justice for more than individual human-rights violations . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . but this has been no recipe for renewed stability and growth . as asian values ’ proponents have argued , all human rights – civic and political , as well as social and economic – must be strengthened . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash .
a key theoretical point in moving toward a debt-fueled economy was redefinition of insecurity as risk . whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been a matter of morality , hedging against risk against risk is a pure technical question . by contrast , a virtuous chinese that saves a large share of their incomes , castigated western economists for their failure to comprehend that their obligation to do so was to spend on humanity . this was the fundamental achievement of mathematical economics , and it was the most important achievement of the global economy . at the same time , major uncertainties – the destination of one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morals .
as a result , italy – and the european union – is headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s general election last may , when a similar inability to produce a parliamentary majority forced yet another general election next month . italy and greece have much in common , starting with their institutional malaise . having ruled out a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement , or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s ’s center-right party , nigel farage , will depend on senators ’ willingness to support specific actions . but that approach is both inefficient and unstable . the crisis in cyprus – which threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to collapse and to power cyprus from the rest of europe – could make governance even harder .
in the 1980s , for example , america embarked on such agreements with foreign car companies , micro-chip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . some of the preconditions imposed since then have been avoided by the world trade organization . but just a few years ago , america ’s auto industry pressed for a requirement in a trade deal that gave it the minimum market share of american exports to south korea . if trump wants to avoid production from moving overseas and encouraging investment from abroad , us companies may soon see us companies pushing to agree “ voluntarily ” to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements . trump is likely to dust these tools with further development .
the paris accord does not victimize america ; on the contrary , america has a worldwide beating responsibility to get its house in order . and the us per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country by far . america ’s population today amounts to just 4.4 % of the world ’s ’s population . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been several times higher than the world average , that owes global climate justice rather than the other way around . according to figures from the world resource institute , america accounted for astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 .
since then , china ’s stock market has been a global laggard – that is , until last year , when the world ’s best-performing economy was rising at a rate of more than 150 % . that rise was preceded by a loss of almost a third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early july . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : a 8.5 % plunge came when the market re-opened on a monday that followed its largest two-day rate since 2008 . china ’s gdp growth , for example , was unaffected ( indeed , the us economy grew at almost 10 % ) , when the stock market lost half its value between 2001 and 2005 , or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to decline again after the 2008 financial crisis ) . and that volatility is another reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market may rise or fall by double digits without triggering a broader economic crash , at least so far .
i sought to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( at the same time ) , which tends to be heard here as the expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead rank one of its doctrinal traces on his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . on the one hand , one can be found in that horde of nativists , white supremacists , and the neo-confederates that descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to crack down on some black and jewish headlines . but very soon , we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an ambiguous choice , “ “ “ at the same time ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and fury before an unsolvable and terrifying mystery of the dual nature of nature , both physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected , of the tormented body of christ . ” the conversation has again shifted to macron .
in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , plus alan garcía of perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , as well as many others , engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , enabled inflation to surge , and eventually suffered currency crises . yet there can be little disagreement that latin american countries have been at least some of the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west – is at odds over intellectual ownership of their attitude . argentines , giving the world the über-populist juan domingo perón , or the brazilians who brought the us getúlio vargas to power , might beg to differ . writers , such as john judis , argue that nineteenth-century americans have invented political populism , with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric .
israel is bound to fight against this emerging new american doctrine , which equates it with iran , or even with india and pakistan for that matter . what is remarkable is that it has lasted for so long . but it has been recent statements by the us congress by secretary of defense robert gates , who has been especially shocking to the israelis . political contexts matter ; israelis will argue , for that matter . he has expressed an understanding of iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons because , he says , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent national electoral commission ( cei ) announced opposition leader alassane ouattara , a landslide victory in the country ’s november presidential election , with a 54.1 % popular vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , calling on gbagbo to respect the people ’s ’s will . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , calling on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , had acquired 45.9 % .
fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of tibetan unrest in 1959 , which led to the dalai lama ’s exile and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s ’s government has engaged in many proactive actions , even accepting the “ serf liberation day ” to defend its record in tibet in the last 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama to ’s representatives . in contrast to last year , when the rush home for lunar new year celebration hamstrung freak , this year ’s millions of migrant workers have already reverted to their rural homes . many will continue to stay there , because the global economic downturn has hit china hard , costing their jobs . torn by a host of extraordinarily sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than in 2008 .
success also requires taking bold steps to tear up trade barriers and open an economy back toward investment from the fast-growing countries like china and india . solving the deficit required difficult decisions – from reforming the welfare system and raising the state ’s pension age to control public-sector pay . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing checks on itself . we need to make responsible choices aimed at ensuring that we can live within our own means , and that is what i am determined to deliver . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition for securing the economy for the long term – but insufficient .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world reveals precisely that . building the industrial and modern service industries is a critical component of successful diversification . the key to achieving it lies in the capacity to diversify domestic production by generating new types of activity , fostering economic linkages within the country , and creating new domestic technological capabilities . conversely , de-industrialization and concentration of growth in informal service activities are a proven recipe for failure , as has been demonstrated by most developing countries ’ sad experiences in recent decades . building the industrial and modern service industries is critical to successful diversification .
the oed etymology ignores the non-english origins of the term , which can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism . the word was applied earlier , but in a rather different sense . today , few know where the term as “ globalization ” has been originated . the oxford english dictionary delivers as its earliest reference to its current usage , an academic article since 1972 . it used diplomatic term conveying the linkage between the various domains of policy ( for example , in bargaining simultaneously on financial and security ) .
the best “ serious consequences ” of which the un security council has warned should iraq fail to abide by its commitments would be an even stronger effort to destroy its illicit arms through the continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , rather than invaders . without its determination , backed by a highly credible display of military force and detested diplomacy , iraq ’s military programs would not now be vulnerable to scrutiny more intense than they claimed by any other would-be proliferator around the world today . but precisely because it is so extraordinary that it is hard to see how to implement those threats by starting a war can make any sense at all . a credible threat to the war has been vital to achieve this extraordinary feat . if in un inspections iraq were exposed as having lied and cheated that would constitute an acknowledgment of inspections ’ effectiveness , scarcely grounds for military reprisals .
to be sure , historical analogies are imperfect . major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to collaborate on forensics and controls . though their vision of “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and thus be unacceptable to democratic governments , it might be possible to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . obviously , cyber technologies are vastly different from nuclear technologies , especially given that non-governmental actors can exploit it far more readily . indeed , major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to collaborate on forensics and controls .
indeed , with banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms and with a planning system incapable of imposing alternative effective discipline , china is already awash in the third-tier cities that will never be occupied , and with enormous overcapacity in heavy industries . to be sure , this would produce squandered investment . but , as some chinese policymakers respond , every growth process involved waste : nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america created enormous overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation . most of the debt owed within the state-owned system , for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks ; and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks ; funding operations with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , forever extending new loans to pay back old debts .
the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , resource depletion leaves the country poorer rather than wealthier . likewise , they know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians the most possible out of a land grab , and are rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining agreements to make sure that this should be the case . moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that plentiful natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . as president hage geingob put it , the press often says things that it does n’t like . transparency is critical to this process , which is why governments ’s strong support for press freedom are so important .
anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , win 57 % of its popular vote on a platform emphasizing economic recovery , and this will naturally be its top priority . it is not inconceivable that this type of cooperation could be extended to include other neighbors around the levant . naturally , much will depend on how it fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding a bailout package . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nick anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . but a prudent look beyond today ’s turbulence – and into anastasiades of ’s history – provides some grounds for optimism .
it is not a structure that is conducive to political coups de theâtre , with much of the commission ’s work being the tireless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . yet the head of the commission is appealing to europe ’s dynamic public face . for reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents must draw from the ranks of past or contemporary prime ministers . yet the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asked , “ what is europe doing ? ” the commission ’s own internal culture of inter-ethnic and red tape is a constraint that nobody in brussels likes to speak out .
britain has chosen to leave the eu because it has an outsized view of itself . as scotland confronts brexit ’s strategic challenges , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that suit it better . but it will soon have to follow a small-country model like that of switzerland or norway . independence would enable scotland to develop policies more in line with other successful small economies , not least by retaining eu membership . but it is not so obvious that the uk provides such security , particularly now that it stands on a path toward leaving the eu ’s single market and customs union .
second , with china such an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has a disproportionate impact on projections concerning global corporate yields . as a result , many companies , less persuaded that “ routine ” innovation yields large payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did in the past . third , while us companies recognize that innovation is a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they are also humbled by its increasingly winner-take-all nature . and , with china ’s excessive domestic credit expansion and the shadow-banking system attracting heightened attention , many companies are becoming anxious . successful innovation today owes much less to funding , and much more to the discovery of its “ killer app . ”
stockholm – it has been just one year since the failed coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future continue to abound . last year ’s ’s ’s attempted coup was nothing short of a dramatic victory , if not dramatic . mutinous f-16 fighter aircraft struck down the turkish parliament ; and 249 people lost their lives . if the coup were not stymied within its first 48 hours , turkey most likely would fall into a violent and violent civil war , with consequences that would extend well beyond its borders . mutinous f-16 fighter aircraft struck turkish parliament ; 249 people lost their lives .
the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as a “ provocative ” act and the violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , just five days after north korea conducted its nuclear-weapons test . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , but rather what happens as an afterward . seoul – once again , tensions are mounting across asia over north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s missile program . unlike its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s government this time has notified international agencies in advance of his intention to launch a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and may 8 . but , rather than hot rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the military ’s consequences of a us missile launch .
this initiative is worth recalling , was partly a response to the russian invasion of georgia earlier this summer , when the kremlin sought to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as an independent state . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree to recognizing those occupied territories or legitimizing its invasion . and it has only held its first round of the presidential election , which satisfy europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome . it has been a decade since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which has established a more credible framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , georgia , moldova , and ukraine .
without a renewed vision for europe and an effective approach to resolving crises , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to gain traction and endanger the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and the eu as a whole . it will follow either by sighs of relief ( as i am hopeful ) , or the cataclysm that rocks the eu toward its core and brings disaster to the uk . but , however determined by the british , europe needs a fundamental resolution of its own . the politics of child steps are no longer sufficient .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf may be returning to its core business of crisis management . whereas the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now appears to be highly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy , with unlimited accounts dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic , at least for now . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full hand in dealing with three important challenges . the first , and probably the simplest , challenge lies in restoring the imf ’s public image .
the rise of the monetary base is , however , only temporary ; when the bonds are redeemed , it reverts to its previous level . under the fiscal stimulus financed by helicopter money , but the central bank never has to reverse the rise of the monetary base . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free loans to the government ; it is a gift to it . because the leveraged holders have no say in a central bank , the increase in the monetary base should not be viewed as a liability , but rather as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth . this eventual need to reduce the monetary base is an implicit claim on the central bank ’s assets ; thus , the rise is rightly seen as a liability on its balance sheet .
brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and brief term credits to international trade dried up , started to change the face of elections . then , in early june , gomes soared to 28 % , within a striking distance from lula , who declined to 33 % . her party accused serra ’s of orchestrating an attack , and , in revenge , her party -- the liberal front ’s liberal front -- threw its support into ciro gomes . with sarney , lula reasserted his supreme in the polls , reaching 43 % in mid-may . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and brief term credits to international trade dried up , started to change in the face of his election .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the communiqué recently concluded the fourth plenum of the 19th national central committee of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping intends to tighten his grip on the former british colony at all costs . he should be preparing to rack up a formidable bill , and he should be prepared to do so . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has emerged as a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increase its share of renewable electricity generation to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets . moreover , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria and the thorny issue of western sahara – have hampered integration in the maghreb , an absolute necessity for unlocking prosperity in north africa . it has been a vocal champion of counter-extremism initiatives , including responsible for religious education , far beyond its own borders . such failings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , despite important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional changes that have shifted powers from the monarch to the parliament ; and legal reforms , such as aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as advancing family law and gender equality .
after all , there is little reason to believe that the fiscal compact or the proposed “ debt brake ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . to use eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate the great sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely to the 60 % limit – of-gdp margin , where countries will have the most difficulty resisting the temptation . the rules require a credible enforcement mechanism for action . misplaced hope that the enforcement problem can be overcome by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions . to be sure , america ’s federal government never bailed out the state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional clauses that limit deficit spending .
nonetheless , following amendments to indian patents act , india still had some safeguards to avoid the type of excesses that major pharmaceutical companies routinely dodge in american and european countries alike . according to section 3 ( d ) of indian patents act , “ mere discovery ” of a new form … property , or … use for a well-known substance , or simply use of a well-known process ” , is not eligible for a patent unless it comes at the expense of “ results in a new product , ” or employs , at least one new reactant . for indian drug makers , manufacturing generic versions of patented drugs would require a license , and such licenses are seldom if ever taken for granted . for example , india ’s abides by a tighter definition of what constitutes an invention that impedes “ evergreening ” : the process of expanding its patent ’s life by taking away secondary patents for marginal improvements to its original drug . but , given that the trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all members of the world trade organization have had to recognize one another ’s pharmaceutical patents .
but bolsonaro is reluctant to keep the amazon chaste ; he merely wants to be among those exploiting it . with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like a virgin that every foreign pervert wants . ” his promotion of rain forests ’s development and attacks on environmental regulation have led , for example , to expulsions of agribusiness , especially cattle ranching , and illegal logging . foreign actors criticizing brazil ’s exploitation of its rainforests – from european governments to pope francis – are promoting biodiversity only in order to exploit it in the distant future . according to data from brazil ’s ’s ’s national space research institute , brazil ’s share of the amazon ’s deforestation increased in june 88 % year on year .
in short : an all-out military clash with north korea would impose immediate global risks . perhaps trump has begun to realize that intensifying pressure on north korea will not preclude a showdown over negotiations with kim . to be sure , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . the most obvious is that iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea – which , in contrast to iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already possesses an estimated 60 nuclear warheads , and appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the us mainland . kim appears entirely willing to subject the north koreans to privations of any kind to stay in power .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . conventional monetary policy operates by altering short-term interest rates that include buying money from the central bank and selling short-term government debt . but this reflects a deep misunderstanding of the issue . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market – buying and selling foreign currency – is involved .
on this view , science also has a rather different , higher purpose : comprehension of the natural world . after all , it would not be funny if a charity devoted to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; practical value in that case would be paramount , because it would be the only real reason for a charity to exist . but a joke would not work if there were not at the same time another widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge has the value to be independent of any practical use . so , although the potential usefulness is the reason why governments devote so much money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than they do . so , although the potential usefulness is precisely the reason why governments devote so much money to academic research , people really expect more from science than they do .
new york – last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization highlighted the need to place human rights at the heart of the response to the zika outbreak . but abortion politics has intervened , as republican lawmakers – leading a congressional hearings on the zika outbreak – have made funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization highlighted the need to place human rights at the heart of the response to the zika outbreak . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with excessive accountability , while handing them too little power to do with them – are not lost on everyone . the un ’s position has n’t helped , either .
such an approach needs to be communicated both to europe ’s public and to those of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . it would reverse a pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to provide it with its oil and gas resources , and guard its borders against migrants . if it becomes consolidated democracies , as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption . at long last , such countries ’ demographic wealth would be used to meet their development needs . and kick-starting european loans would force italy to seek one ’s fortune back home .
edmund phelps of columbia university reports that these slow-growing countries lack “ dynamism , ” which he defines as a combination of entrepreneurial spirit and financial institutions to channel it . to be sure , what is advantageous today may well be problematic tomorrow : europe and japan are facing severe difficulties when their demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america ’s today . but is this an accurate description of slow-growing countries ? both ghost and essential financial institutions must be present to enable “ creative destruction ” – a force joseph schumpeter argued for sixty years – to ignite a temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america today . but this is not what ails their economies now .
lula 's popularity ignacia da silva and his team , who run opinion polls in the run-up to brazil 's presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is ready to reject traditional governments . in argentina , one bumbling president appears to be the next . so far , lula and his party find themselves outside the mainstream of economic thought and the politics that capital has already begun to flee -- even when elections are months away . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course . institutions are torn down ; property rights are being challenged ; and an ever more corrupt redistribution effort is underway .
by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person per year , less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt led permanently . likewise , the iea estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro power – even with a carbon tax . yet western activists seem to believe that the world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied with inadequate and irregular electricity supplies . in its recent african energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s energy consumption will rise by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s ’s population almost doubling , less energy per person will be available . few in the rich world would switch to renewables without heavy subsidies ; no one would surely cut off connections to the mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( yet another form of subsidies ) .
speaking in 2011 and early 2012 , there was much talk of a crash in china ’s housing market , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 . talk then shifted to the dangers of a resurgent housing bubble and a collapse of the shadow banking system , mostly of wealth-management firms and trust companies . where , then , will the high returns on financial goods provided by the shadow banking system originate ? with relatively sluggish growth , corporate profitability , upon which the shadow banking system ’s returns are based , is low and declining . according to market sources , the total assets administered by the shadow banking system have grown exponentially since 2009 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 .
but , while industry faces the threat of inflated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home form and domestic energy regulation loom . by any reckoning , this is an important industrial sector that should not suffer from over-regulation . european industry is afflicted by a similar problem , with a large share of its energy consumption . refining and petrochemicals are supplying the eu with a substantial share of its fuel , as well as a major source of tax revenues . the downstream sector , together with the distribution of fuels , contributes some € 240 billion annually to the treasury ’s coffers .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist german chancellor , angela merkel , has been pushing back against trump . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that is protecting minorities and welcoming the poor and downtrodden . in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches to issues such as immigration threaten to create systemic challenges that will endure long after trump ’s return to the life of golf courses and bankruptcy courts . yet draining the poison from europe will require much more than scolding the us and praying for trump ’s early departure . sensible european leaders may be forgiven for politely sending the uk to get its attention to threats to its long-term cohesion and fundamental values .
if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theory – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality – needs to be reconfigured . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem to be paralyzing – and contemporary political sentiment surely does not seem to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may actually be empowering , because it implies the potential to enhance both economics and politics . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theory – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality – must be designed to constrain economic incentives and vice versa . moreover , policymakers need to rethink much of the ideological super-structures erected by market fundamentalist assumptions .
a more effective approach would employ a wide range of instruments , including debt restructuring . likewise , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to reduce the incentives created by almost all countries ’ tax regimes for corporate leverage . at the same time , governments must work to reduce existing debt levels and deficient global demand to which they contribute . it is simply not feasible for the most highly leveraged governments to grow out of debt . nor can austerity on their own suffice , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments – 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s ’s ’s case , that citizens are likely to resist them , as greeks have done .
much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . tech entrepreneurs may tell their investors that they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated with the notion that the world will be better when it sells its business to the highest bidder . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . but silicon valley ’s ceos are no robin hoods , either . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business .
likewise , khan ’s standing in favor of gay marriage has won him the fatwa for apostasy of the fearsome chief imam of the bradford mosque . for europe , this is a necessary principle , at least for europeans . but one must still follow through , and it must be admitted that khan has not yielded on these issues to the facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel . one might say that no less could be expected from a labour leader with a bright future in churchill ’s country . moreover , he has never wavered on critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or on expressed dismay at the growing numbers of male abs and hijabs now seen on london ’s streets that stop people from being interviewed on the issue .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second payment services directive ( psd2 ) program have been critical to open up the banking system ; and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have had for some time run regulatory sandboxes to smooth over new entrants by helping them to comply with standards . perhaps the time to assess open banking ’s financial-stability risks was in the consultation period ahead of the directive ’s passage . aggregators may then present a customer with an integrated view of their finances and offer a add-on service . even now , the list of contributors to the fsb ’s work shows that neither the european commission nor the key regulators in europe and north america have been involved . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” is requiring banks to offer their customer data to non-bank payment providers and account information services .
a traditional development economist , on the other hand , would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by converting timber into paper or furniture into something finland , too . a classical economist would argue that , given this , a country should export timber , which finland did . but all wood-related goods constitute barely 20 % of finland ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s exports . some ideas are worse than wrong : they are castrating because they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary issues , say , the availability of raw materials – and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that may lie elsewhere . consider finland , the nordic country has endowed many trees for its small population .
this more profound transformation , unlike the low-hanging fruit eyed today by many policymakers , offers the only route to climate safety ( that is , staying below the 2ºc threshold ) . we need to reach out to zero-emission vehicles , rather than more fuel-efficient gas-burning cars , especially given that the number of cars worldwide could easily double by mid-century . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient cars , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged on a zero-carbon electricity grid . by pursuing coal to gas , or more efficient gas-burning cars , we are at risk of falling back into the high-carbon trap . we need to bring about zero-emission vehicles , rather than more fuel-efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that the number of cars worldwide could easily double by mid-century .
( indeed , the big economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by curtailing start-up competitors . ) but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates toward export industries that can grow beyond domestic market boundaries – industries where competition encourages the discipline they lack because of dominating local markets . to succeed , the conglomerates need both government support and corporate acceptance . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with support , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . rather than becoming agents of change , they often impede change .
working groups might be formed to try to build a shared narrative . what is iran does in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? likewise , negotiations would need to cover contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of the current hotspots . how , then , will it define its interests in those countries ? does it really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of shia arabs ?
given that china will be the single most important market for the future , it will be decisive in determining not only what the us is producing and consuming , but also how . despite european illusions about the contrary , this will be decided in china instead of the west . domestically , china will be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and demanding gdp growth , is being forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . otherwise , china would quickly achieve its own “ limits to growth , ” ” ” ” with catastrophic greek and , consequently , its political consequences . consider the shift from its traditional automobile to electric transportation .
for the countries following the agreed reform program , the ecb should commit itself to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , and announce how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue . first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must express a clear intention to reduce sovereign interest rates to a sustainable level that is at least 200 basis points below its july averages . a sporadic program without such announcements is unlikely to work , and might even be counter-productive , as private investors may well ask even higher returns , because the ecb ’s increasing share of gdp would be seen as senior , augmenting its risk . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 6.5-7 % interest rate recently , on the grounds that spain has borrowed at almost the same rate in the 1990 ’s . but that statement oddly ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation – thereby confusing real and nominal rates and more rapid gdp growth .
but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s generic argument suggests that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring discretionary rules , remaining highly influential . there were also proponents of flexible inflation-targeting targeting , who held that it would be fine to putting some weight on real gdp growth in the short run , so long as there was a clear longer-term target for cpi inflation . but some felt that , if the definition of it had been stretched too far , it would have lost the significance . close cousins included targeting the price level , rather than targeted core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s generic argument – that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring discretionary rules – remains highly influential .
in the us , for example , slashing labor costs sharply reduce the share of labor income in gdp . firms in the advanced economies are now slashing employment jobs , owing to deficient final demand , resulting in excess capacity , and uncertainty about future demand . but job cutting weakens final demand further , because it lowers labor income and increases inequality . the result is that free markets do not generate enough definitive demand . because a firm ’s labor cost is someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a single firm is destructive in the aggregate .
but with amazon jobs concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of these jobs is very different from the replacement of these jobs . after all , whereas taa targets individuals directly impacted on foreign competition , much of the competition faced by local economies does not come from abroad , and many jobs are lost outside of industries that are directly affected by outside competition , but in the surrounding economy . meanwhile , employment at the amazon has grown by 47 % per year over the last year , to 341,000 people . likewise , import tariffs are helping those left unemployed by the bankruptcy of blockbuster videos , border books , compusa , circuit towns , payouts , or virgin megastores . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , taa is no solution for this type of ailment .
president putin ’s behavior is probably best explained by his dislike of democracy . after this spectacular russian setback , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic and faces the threat of a true democracy within his own neighbor extending to russia . for the first time , ukrainians have cast their little-used little-known brother to russia ’s overboard . moreover , if ukraine becomes an international pariah , it can simply turn to russia , as is president aleksandr lukashenko ’s case in belarus . yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of the sort putin has defeated at home , and yanukovych has accused yushchenko of selling ukrainian firms to russian corporations .
with africa ’s ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste when it implemented such strategies . another potential pittsburgh pitfall on agricultural development is ecological damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , over-exploitation of water , and water pollution . to be sure , agricultural development can have severe economy-wide pitfalls that must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains reduce the number of workers they need on farms , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and manage migration to cities become even more critical . another potential pittsburgh pitfall on agricultural development is ecological damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , over-exploitation of water , and water pollution .
such critics worry that it will force harder to persuade countries to cut their emissions further when it becomes obvious that their collective efforts are insufficient , and that it may even permit some countries to apply irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima treaty ’s greatest accomplishment : it endangers the world ’s longstanding divisions within only two types of countries , both developed and developing . for many of the agreement ’s critics , particularly those within the environmental movement , such compromises have made the lima deal an excessively “ bottom-up ” agreement . it almost certainly will not happen . countries have had too many latitude to make whatever the commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by the common treaty set .
ahn ’s most visible merits are his personal history of overcoming severe challenges and his modest demeanor . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur , has reversed pro-reform professor at seoul national university and major backer of the city ’s ’s ’s ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping out of rumors that he may become a presidential nominee . her refusal to strike out on her own is probably a key reason why she remains at the forefront of various opinion polls . nonetheless , recent polls consistently indicate that a majority of voters distrust both the incumbent government and the ruling party . ahn cheol-soo has already become a lightning rod for every country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , appealing to young people , just as it is .
some people will balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its conservation as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly also agree that preventing human death and suffering , while providing food , water , and education for all , is vitally important . can we really determine the economic value of protecting the natural world ? the reality is that there are simply insufficient sources to do all . dhaka – we humans are not only sharing the planet with a wide variety of other species , including plant , wildlife , and even microbes – that we also depend on them for our survival .
this shifting landscape is calling for bold action on several fronts . in many emerging markets and developing countries , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transport . while the response will certainly have to be tailored to individual countries ’s specific circumstances , some recommendations might help most countries to do so : · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case downside risks materialize . and elsewhere in the region , the tiny pacific island of islands mainly – vulnerability to the effects of climate change .
the brics ’ concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural . it wants to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat – a stance that places it at odds with india . if the brics countries are to jell as a constraint group in international relations , they need to agree on what they believe to be attainable political and economic goals . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship each of the brics countries has been with the united states . for example , they are generally united in their frustration with – but not in their proposed reaction to – the us dollar ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s status as world reserve currency .
by historicizing the “ truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting truth “ into quotation ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating signs from his referenced referenced ( louis althusser ) , and miring apparent in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude vi-strauss ) , or tying it in borromean charts and graphs ( claude vi-strauss ) , or tying it in borromean contact with borromean contact , irreversible robust aspects . the web then becomes a mob , a free-for-all where everybody displays armed with his or her personal opinions , convictions , and truth . and , third , there has been the “ deconstructionism ” of post-nietzscheans . first , an almost infinite level of speech is set free of digital democracy . i then focused on the responsibilities of both the internet and the gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazonia ) for the following sequence of events : “ we do n’t know how to do it ? ”
we should seize this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice – and preserve elite sports . reaching the level of the elite in sports requires an enormous amount of hard work , dedication , and focus . solna , sweden , elite sports and doping have long been deeply intertwined . but a damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year ’s ’s summer of olympic games in rio de janeiro , brought it to the forefront of public consciousness . by definition , few have been successful , but those who may enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon become a thing of the past . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one that none of the earlier chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in the end of world war i. instead , it remains stuck in somewhere between the nineteenth and the twentieth century . the continuum of this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains either unable either to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or build anything like a resilient framework for peace . instead , it remains mired in somewhere between the nineteenth and the twentieth centuries .
one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out of higher levels of investment . that leads to a second , more plausible explanation , which is both psychological and behavioral in character . even rapid responses become more effective if key networks and systems – particularly the electricity grid – become resilient . that seems clearly wrong : numerous expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . why , then , are we prone to subinvesting in our economies ’ resilience ?
in october , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , responding to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rate to 25 basis points , to 2.5 % , and 5.56 % , respectively , respectively , – the first rate hike since 2007 . meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction . in the west , concerns about the impact of chinese growth have triggered a fearful sell-off in markets . in brazil , interest rates remain near 11 % . right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank of india raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and china ’s central bank now indicates that it could raise interest rates further .
for example , manufacturers in jiangsu have been forced to adjust steadily to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets . traditionally , contract manufacturers in china are dispersed and ferociously competitive . they have little say over domestic and international regulation , so they have little say in terms of domestic and international regulation . less fragmented industries also lobby better . larger firms are more adept at pooling resources for research and development that are the key to china ’s aspirations to ascend the value ladder .
but the literature on “ exit strategies ” ” ” – on how to replace a currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate – makes abundantly clear that the moment when china could navigate that transition smoothly has now pass . no question , a country would be better off with a more flexible exchange-rate regime that removed one-way bets for speculators and acted as an economic shock absorber . this puts chinese policymakers at the mercy of an iranian tourist that asks for directions to dublin , and is told , “ well , sir ” if i would n’t start from here . this may have been true of china once again ; it is no longer true today . countries may exit a pegged pace only when there is an economy ’s confidence , encouraged by the belief that a more flexible exchange rate could appreciate just as much as weaken .
a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( intended to force government-insured banks back to their core lending mission ) may work . the us senate ’s bill ’s provision for derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing such constraints , have clearly lined up to the sidelines of major us banks . but america ’s government would remiss out on things as they are . there are many ways in which to distance the big banks ’ excesses . the dodd-frank legislation was intended not to ban derivatives purchases , but simply to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized us taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) that is neither a natural nor inevitable by-product of lending .
egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , high unemployment , and populist policies . if finalized , the imf ’s program could trigger additional aid packages by the world bank and other international donors . even with the availability of outside finance , egyptian leaders need to look for ways to engage the private sector in revitalizing the country ’s economy . unfortunately , the latest political incident , involving america ’s democracy-promotion activities , has cooled bilateral relationships , threatening the $ 1.3 trillion in military assistance that egypt receives annually from the united states . if the aid arrives , egypt could start to address some of its funding problems , but the long-term strategy remains to be achieved to spur sustainable growth .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with the advent of free food ) or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . interestingly , i have heard this point at the wpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people have flown thousands of miles to meet to face sharing ideas and intensifying working relationships . to be sure , those who favor working at home cite not only the cost and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – too much culture , perhaps – and the steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . being physically present at work implies direct engagement with other sharp and creative mindsets . and the advantages of human contact and interactions rest on the grounds that salespeople still ask customers , rather than using skype , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face meetings ; i am on a company ’s executive board ) changes lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now now now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
whereas global goods trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , flows of digital information have surged : cross-border bandwidth use has grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation worldwide . in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need to ship goods over long distances . but , on its own , globalization itself is not in retreat ; it is on its own . the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and market speeds are assuming greater weight in such decisions . whereas global goods trade have stalled and cross-border financial flows declined sharply since 2007 , flows of digital information have surged : cross-border bandwidth use has grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating thinking , intellectual content , and innovation worldwide .
in 2002 , china signed the framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation ( apec ) with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . as xi put it at davos in davos in 2017 , china is committed to growing an open global economy . in contrast to the standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade deals and fewer on multilateral bargaining rounds . xi and his circle evidently will not want to dismantle the global trading system . but , in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ over globalization .
part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate effect , whereas the contribution of foreign investment , for example , takes years , to become manifest . all politicians in democracies are thinking in the short run ; few have time horizons that extend far beyond the coming elections . part of singh ’s trouble spot is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate effect , whereas the benefits of foreign investment take years to become manifest themselves . with his 20-year track record to demonstrate publicly , singh has a better case than most to trust voters when he says he acts in his long-term interest . within singh , the congress party will mount a push to match the country ’s economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs .
so , for example , if they use cash to continue to finance the private sector , they will ensure that lending go to creditworthy customers . the alternative is one urged by sarkozy and banque de france : purchases by european banks of their countries ’ government bonds . this implies that , like credits provided by italy and spain ’s banks over the past several months , most of the new cash will be loaned locally to safe households and to large incumbents . that will enable bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that europe ’s economies now require . the banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements and rebuild their balance sheets to financial health , which implies using ecb money in ways that enable them to meet this objective most effectively .
in doing so , it would improve its standing both in and outside europe . turkey has an important role to play in both its region and around the world , – one that is undermined by its continued rejection of armenian genocide . but symbolic steps , while important , are not enough to bring real progress . turkey ’s government needs to demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions are truly safeguarding all of its citizens ’ human rights . its disingenuous approach to genocide is inconsistent with its attempts to cultivate a reputation as an honest , reliable partner .
yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after ida-spain , none of latin america ’s ’s fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting best practices . for this reason , fdi has to be promoted in isolation from domestic investment and exports . furthermore , foreign investors are reluctant to engage with diplomats or civic personnel . many advocate both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failures of such institutional arrangements in the past . they want to talk to private-sector experts who understand their companies ’ technical and financial needs or sectors .
big mining companies can prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials , such as iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , scarce earth elements , and lithium , as well as mineral fertilizers to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . third , the world needs better ways to assess mining ’s ecological risks . with the paris climate agreement a year old , transformative global fossil-fuel markets are just a matter of time . companies with a large fossil-fuel portfolio like coal will soon face severe uncertainties , including stranded assets , and investors may change their risk assessments accordingly . phasing out coal during times of latent over-production might even be realized .
he has also acquired the first x-ray of partly oriented samples of dna . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived at cambridge in cambridge in 1935 to work as a graduate student from bernal . the following year , he passed excellent hemoglobin crystals and soon produced the best x-ray patterns of x-ray diffraction to date . but the pattern of observable diffraction -- the intensities and positions of individual reflections -- represents only half the data needed to de-state the structures of diffracting object . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived at cambridge in 1935 to work like the graduate student of bernal .
the text mostly replicates the structures of convention chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november , and the conclusions reached by the convention ’s working groups . the endgame to determining the european union ’s final shape is now underway . the endgame to determining the european union ’s final shape is underway . such fidelity has not held on hold for economics . it began with the publication by the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe by the first sixteen articles of the “ treaty to establish the european constitution . ”
in pakistan , for example , the 2008 infrastructure-investment gap has been delayed by nine years and beset by difficulties when it finally played out . likewise , while all companies need data on investment and operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always reliable , and often skewed by political agendas . in pakistan , for example , the 2008 census scheduled for the first time was delayed by nine years and beset by trouble when it finally played out . meanwhile , population growth and urbanization are demand outstripping supply . in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion annually , firms are paying more to do business .
in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic protections for media are non-existent . each of these outlets has been distinguished by their coverage of sensitive stories – ranging from conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . the bbc news media group ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . likewise , russia today has less press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 . nor have closures spared prominent regional outlets such as siberian broadcastertv-2 , or kaliningrad ’s ’s ’s top independent weekly newspapers , novye kolesa .
one of the more promising recent initiatives is the carbon pricing leadership coalition ( cplc ) , bringing together 30 governments and more than 180 businesses and strategic partners to place a value on carbon dioxide emissions . today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of businesses worldwide are finally taking action . the idea is straightforward : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s goal of limiting the rise in global average temperature to below 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels , ideally toward 1.5 ° celsius above preindustrial levels , we need to cut emissions dramatically . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for further progress and continued collaboration are high . earlier this month , thousands assembled for the un ’s intergovernmental panel on climate change ( cplc ) , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change .
there is nothing to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in switzerland , norway , switzerland , or new york . at that point , the one thing still stands out between the euro zone and financial chaos will be the ecb , which could purchase government bonds and fund the bank run . but this could , in principle , step in – as long as northern europe has allowed . the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risks . once greece is going , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , as well as elsewhere in the region , have frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader , lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yes , lee ’s system has allowed him to remain in power for 31 years while using civic – not criminal – courts to harry his domestic opponents . but , more important , lee has also relied on elements of a democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has triumphed over patronage . here , unmo ’s political interests appear to have been allowed to dictate that the country ’s key opposition leader should be tried on trumped-up charges that no genuine democracy embraces the rule of law would even consider leveling the line , and convicted on evidence that no truly independent court would ever accept . yet the path on which both countries have embarked was not lee ’s path .
are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” as us senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , called them ? trump , in a comedian jon stewart ’s words , is “ america ’s id ” , ” or at least the id of large numbers of mostly white – mostly small-town americans . but trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout much of the democratic world . are all of his supporters “ crazies ” as us senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , called them ? trump ’s critics argue that he is playing to disaffected disaffected voters ’ basest instincts that hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , mistrust of bankers ( or anyone with a college degree for that matter ) , and still can not get over the election of a us president whose father was black .
spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and still shows no sign of improvement . in europe , too , the picture is mixed . spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s ’s large economies , sky-rocked to 20 % , and continues to show little sign of improvement . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average growth rates are expected . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain mired in recession , with their gdps continuing to shrink .
sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable , but powerade offers this sage counsel : “ you may be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid intake if you build your fluid intake gradually . ” after all , this is the advice of multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities such as britain ’s ’s ’s ’s national health service . malmö is telling everyone to know ” that you should drink eight water glasses daily . indeed , often we drink without being thirsty , but that is precisely how it should be : as a beverage maker gatorade reminds us , your brain may know a lot , but it does n’t know when your body is thirsty . a healthy living now means putting bottled bottles with us , sipping at every time , by attempting to drink our daily quota to ensure that we stay hydrated and healthy .
businesses are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is collapsing and face unprecedented risk penalties for their borrowing costs . will they be permitted to emit carbon dioxide as it has in the past ? what kinds of powerhouses will be acceptable in the future ? can the united states continue to afford suburban lifestyles with sprawling homes in far-flung communities that require long-distance automobile commutes ? they also face enormous uncertainties .
at present , the alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge . while past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect for action is better this time around , given that the talks will take place in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been felt so deeply . while past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect of action is better this time around , given that the talks will take place in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been felt so deeply . weak mandates , insufficient funding , disorganized structures , and the absence of a system of global governance have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ ability to operate with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . these include independent groups , such as refugees in the international community ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co _ founder gordon moore ’s co founder , gordon moore noted that improvements in semiconductor fabrication enable him to double down on the density of transistors and circuits , but “ moore ’s law ” remained in power , with engineers seeing no immediate barriers bringing the process of improvement to a halt anytime soon . by the late 1950s , computers had been around the world ’s computers and processing power averaged 10,000 machine guidance per second . the scale of the investment needed to make what is now widely known as “ moore ’s law ” has grown exponentially along with the density of transistors and circuits ; but “ moore ’s law ” remains in power , with engineers seeing no immediate barriers bringing the pace of improvement to a halt anytime soon . there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come .
by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping students to health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even greater number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . these multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge gaps in developing regions . but neither corporations nor governments are able to do so on their own . they need to work together to reach the best possible outcome . xinjiang means a “ new frontier , ” ” ” ” ” ” and right now , we are at the cutting edge of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain health-care access .
at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the state department to initiate substantive dialogue with plo leaders . and , beginning with the annapolis conference in late 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of talks between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now , it is obama ’s turn , and he should push for a un security council resolution that sets the new parameters for a future peace accord and replace the security council resolution 242 that dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the state department to initiate substantive dialogue between plo leaders . fortunately , he still has time , with many previous us presidents set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house .
loughner ’s firing of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as did the court-ordered evaluation of his mental competency . likewise , cho ’s history of mental illness has been widely discussed . though mass shootings are extremely rare even in america , media ’s coverage continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . in this scenario , america may well export its mental-illness ’s stigma on the outside world . indeed , on the other side of the world , an australian newspaper reported giffords 160 times in the six months after the shooting , compared with just one in the preceding 12 months .
ukraine is a large country with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential in many industries . more important , successful reforms in ukraine are making positive gains in russia . for europe , this represents a unique opportunity to assert the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . still , ukraine ’s economy shrank by two-thirds ( in the dollar ’s terms ) since 2006 , making it europe ’s poorest country . it is a key front in a global confrontation between democracy and autocracy .
rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering their competitiveness through austerity and reform . at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the us dollar , given the eurozone ’s lack of a federalized state . civil unrest and the rise of european neo-nazi parties exemplifies these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . at one extreme lies the idea that the euro can not function like the us dollar , given europe ’s lack of a federalized state . but this strategy carries serious risks that ultimately render it unworkable .
the problem arises when expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of orderly markets prove insufficient . should governments employ unemployed workers directly or indirectly by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ? should they employ unemployed workers directly , or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ? economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond these first two checklist items . economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond these first two checklist items .
but even that agreement is not set in stone , because it will depend on whether eu negotiators could first agree on what to do about the border between the irish republic and northern ireland as soon as the uk leaves the eu as a customs union . there is no example anywhere in the world where this is not true . the uk ’s ministers primarily responsible for the talks – a group better known for its dogmatism and personal ambition than for its competence – have so far succeeded in securing an agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 deadline . it also includes a pledge to leave the eu as a single market and a customs union . you can be in a customs union with no border or outside a customs union with borders .
a broader definition is needed , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric inflation target of 2 % , within a 1.5-2.5 % band – over a longer time horizon . at the same time , the eurozone is highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , a unifying safe asset , or instruments of macroeconomic stabilization . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , this mandate should probably still be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – below but close to , say , 2 % medium-term inflation – is too narrow . the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate .
israel and palestine should jointly offer for , and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup . but the us has a desire for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing about peace , may produce one of peace ’s preconditions : goodwill . so many hopes have been vanished amid the bitter failures of so many negotiations . when it comes to wishing for peace in the middle east – virtually a new year ’s ’s ’s tradition ­ – one needs careful attention . the israel-palestine conflict , for its part , has so far lasted .
so the real question is how to get to the point that iraqis possess a police force and an army that can be trusted to uphold the rule of law as much as order . much of the ground has to be covered in order to get anywhere near abroad . notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some of the motives that are less than pure . in northern iraq , old scores are settled and de facto ethnic segregation in regions , such as irbil , that has traditionally been diversified . in other areas , sharia law is being introduced by force .
unemployment stands at about 10 % ( still below half the spanish rate ) , with annual gdp growth at about 1 % ( spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate is negative ) . given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . to be sure , it would be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland into a collapse of spain . but the moods in both countries , together with their perceptions of europe and their role within it , are starkly apparent . the differences between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggest that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , if not in the way rumsfeld meant .
berlin – decisions by the united kingdom ’s ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union are no example of the british black humor that i love . it is not “ monty python ’s flying circus , ” ” ” “ yes , prime minister , ” or “ fawlty towers ” ” ; it ’s ’s ’s ’s just boris , michael gove , and nigel farage , their disastrous political reality show . currently , the same can not be said of the uk . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave the eu ’s gaping hole . but it will not destroy europe .
as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember nakbeh , or “ catastrophe ” – – – their narrative of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . but , for both sides , together with outside powers , the events of 1948 and what followed – a occupation from the 1967 left by historic palestine – represent a tragic failure . israel is most at the fault of that failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . but the international community , the palestinians , and the arabs all bear responsibility as well , albeit at various levels . despite giving lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to leave the occupied territories persists in direct defiance of what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 termed the israeli annexation of land by force .
the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to compel it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . tantalizingly , they say , doing this would produce a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , though they do not explain how this market is structured . moreover , in contrast to fiscal policy , recession insurance might impose no cost on the government , for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk that it will be insured against it will be prevented . blanchard and his colleagues warn that banks may condition loans to firms on their purchases of recession insurance that might help credit markets function better , to address a severe problem underlying the current crisis . indeed , the government ’s ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale enough to compel it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers .
the greek saga demonstrates that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances fast enough to ward off major crises . so far , enforcement has failed , owing to the flaws in europe ’s foundations . second , eliminating imbalances is national governments ’ responsibility within a rescue regime , arranged by supranational authorities , the european commission , and the european central bank , in collaboration with the european council , which in turn represent national governments . the imbalances are not simply the result of irresponsible policies . first , fiscal and external-account balances are to be held under scrutiny to ensure financial stability and sustain the common currency .
as a result , the trade surplus with the us has continued to decline , to $ 20.4 trillion , fueling growing anxiety over the chinese slowdown . china ’s downturn appears sudden ; after all , its exports were surging at double-digit rates every month earlier this year , until may . in fact , china ’s “ two systems ” systems in one country ” have enabled exports to bonded warehouses in hong kong to pad trade statistics . moreover , chinese exports sometimes would rise in the face of a slump in the volume of cargo being shipped from us ports . in particular , china ’s “ two systems ” in one country have allowed exports to bonded warehouses in hong kong to pad trade statistics .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders adhere to newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , m & a is only the first step on a long-term path . for most equity investors , the value of any project depends on effective post-investment management . as chinese firms overseas invest – as mine are currently in latin america – they have responsibilities not only to invest wisely and sustainably for their companies , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s domestic investment priorities . as a result , clear rights and obligations must be worked out carefully in the early stages of investment , something that was all but absent earlier .
and our embrace of us global responsibilities extends to japan ’s ’s ’s self-defense forces . as the world sees during obama ’s visit , japan is both back and prosperous . members of the self-defense forces displayed exemplary cooperation with america and the australian armed forces in afghanistan from the great east japan earthquake in 2011 and earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere they were deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . working alongside countries with which the us shares shared common values and interests , the us will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to arabs and australia . to make a proactive contribution to peace , japan will be shoulder to shoulder its own share of responsibility for assuring a security that supports global prosperity and stability .
how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible capacity for negotiation if talks can not begin until israel insists that they retreat on its minimal status as a settlement freeze on the occupied territories ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if the two-state solution disappears entirely on its agenda . israel , as its founding father , david ben-gurion , has warned , may well become a democratic state , and may well become an state occupying an entire historic israel ; but it may not be all three . another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if the two-state solution disappears entirely from its agenda . how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ?
we need a democratic , competitive environment , initiative on all levels , active civil society , and genuine public scrutiny . but , even with favorable global market conditions , we have not managed to address the underlying poverty problem , in which millions of russians still live . i am convinced that russia ’s ’s troubles all come down to politics . nor was it the crisis that sparked corruption , affecting officialdom at all levels , or that has caused russia to lose its democratic dynamic . we russians have been riding on oil and gas , forgetting that these means will not last forever .
in my judgment , there are only two viable options left to be left behind . the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to assess greece ’s realistically ’s lack of solvency , and thus stop lending to greece ’s finances to its banking system . but allowing greece to default , and remaining in the eurozone , is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries might amass the enormous debts , financed by the ecb , with no intention of repaying . fiscal responsibility in the rest of the eurozone would be fatally undermined . but allowing greece to default and remaining in the eurozone is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries might amass the enormous debts , financed by the ecb , with no intention of repaying .
by standardizing design elements like cap heights , fixtures , and flooring flooring , construction companies can lower costs and promote productivity , because workers gain experience from repetitive tasks . as it stands , housing-construction industries are highly fragmented , impeding their ability to seize on economies of scale , with builders often relying mostly on the same methods used 50 years ago . this brings us to the second crucial lever for expanding affordable housing : a far more cohesive , efficient construction industry . further savings are possible through industrial approaches , such as the use of components – for example , wall street and flooring slabs – built offsite . china , for example , imposes a idle-land tax on formerly public lands if its owners default on a year ’s development process .
if left unchecked , this figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , over-taking maternal deaths . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not only an effective solution , one that avoids 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; often , it is the only solution , given that the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or cure for cervical cancer . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not only an effective solution , one that avoids 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often the only possible solution , given that the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or cure for cervical cancer . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly demanded the hpv vaccine . this is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met just a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth halt of cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the africa conference .
washington , dc – ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships between private firms , government bureaucrats of governments , and elected politicians . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and executives have been convicted and imprisoned . meanwhile , the drama has been taking its toll on the brazilian economy . corruption scandals have already reached all-time highs in brazilian society .
nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether health-care pressures will ultimately propel the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse , with a very large chunk of the economy reverting to a more socialist system . some societies may decide that they are better off being red than they are dead . most countries are relying far too heavily on command and control , providing far too little incentive to encourage patients and providers to make efficient choices . some societies may decide that they are better off than they are dead . i am not arguing for health-care capitalism , but they warn that support will become fragile , far more so than for , say , globalization nowadays .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his sentiment that james jones clerk maxwell ’s equations that depict electricity fundamentals and magnetism , “ “ have independent existence ” and proprietary intelligence that they are wiser … even their self-expression , that we get more out than was originally put into them . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman described his discovery of the new laws of physics , proclaimed “ “ truth by its beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiments are all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking could never manufacture working iphones , plug-in photos of pluto , or atomic bombs . wishful thinking , wishful thinking , could never manufacture working iphones , pluto photos or atomic bombs .
there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interactions . in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might lag , owing to two contending groups stuck in attrition wars ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but expecting the other group to bear the brunt of the costs . why , with clearly formulated alternatives on the table , have the government opted for an predictably disastrous course of action , at so high a level of human cost ? by delaying it , they are providing information to the rest of the group about its willingness to withstand the pain . let ’s start with the last .
by shifting its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation – or even 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – the us would set itself in motion a rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . here is where the fed is coming in . a world in which the us has a proven record of honoring the confidence it mandates to play its role as a global economic hegemon is a much better world for america than one in which it has not been trusted . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a far better and secure world . rather than view the 30 % euro appreciation that would follow from the ecb ’s current monetary policies , german exporters are screaming for actions designed to prevent america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” finally bringing about moderate north inflation than the current grinding depression in the south .
but ensuring that the us can continue to take the lead in the twenty-first century will require a very different type of engagement . indeed , us multilateral leadership requires not only bolder and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to shoulder the costs of these rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold their “ civilians ” or taking concrete steps to reduce – and ultimately eliminate – their nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . and a team of 47 republican senators has written a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next us congress may not honor whatever the nuclear deal they reach with obama . another source of doubt over america ’s enduring influence lies in its continued need of multilateral engagement , and this is always more difficult than bilateral engagement .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have been battered by their countries . while claiming to redeemers of the impoverished and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they are refusing international assistance , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and in many cases die ) from severe shortages of food , medicines , and medical supplies . to be sure , maduro and his associates are not simply going down , because losing power would probably entail a long history of imprisonment in the united states for drug trafficking , or the hague for crimes against humanity . that requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through a free and fair presidential election before the end of this year , as dictated by the us constitution . caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration – has been devastated by their country .
indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in coastal provinces . so far , china has mostly caught up with the “ field of dreams ” approach to urbanization : building it , and coming . but the effectiveness of such investment will depend on its sequence and pace of implementation , and on how skillfully they adapt to each locality of distinct resources , demands , and aspirations . and now china ’s leaders are increasingly assuming that strategies inland , ensure critical investment in physical and human capital . four interrelated issues must be addressed .
his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , exacerbated his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states simultaneously ; and , in the recent crisis , all earned him a halt to his mocking louisiana broadcasts . if china really is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost totally isolated internationally . that is not an easy question to answer , but it should be obvious . will kim react to the fact that isolation recklessly , by continuing to antagonize the south , or pragmatically by becoming more flexible ? it should be obvious to kim nowadays that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country .
only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish migrants – has highlighted the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that france has developed in its own country . the need to address this outcome in france and across europe has grown more important than ever , as rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged immigrants meet the rise of far-right political parties . europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more immigrants . the only thing that has changed since is the rise of islamic fundamentalism and some young people ’s religious radicalization . the statistics are puzzling and sometimes contradictory , but the european union ’s ’s ’s current foreign-born population may grow by another 100 million migrants by mid-century .
non-english-language academic journals simply do not command equal scrutiny within the sciences . as a result , the space for research topics that many countries can commit is limited and must struggle to preserve their scientific talent . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on channels that determine whether or not the scholar will have successful careers , developing countries will need to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers at a more competitive footing . non-english-language academic journals simply do not command the same level of attention in the sciences .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week , the international monetary fund ’s annual meetings , malpass needs to address such concerns head-on .
the first , the secular stagnation hypothesis , was proposed by larry summers . its keynesian premise is that the equilibrium interest rate , at which demand would equilibrium supply , is currently lower than the actual interest rate . but what matters is the real rate of interest rates , the gap between market rates and inflation . there are , in essence , two competing explanations . this seems paradoxical , because interest rates are close to zero in most advanced economies .
for its part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe lessened their commercial opportunities during a crucial league term . for the cup ’s winner was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams loaded up to the european leagues , but egypt , which fielded only four players ( outside the eu ’s 23 ) that are playing in europe . few egyptian players would be familiar to europeans following this game , but egypt played a far better and well-deserved victory . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt had defeated in finland , featured only a single player from a domestic club and 20 out of european clubs . but the most notable lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations include those that combine globalization ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s opportunities with strong domestic foundations .
berlin – the world ’s task in addressing north korea ’s saber rattling makes no easier feat by confronting an impoverished and effective defeat country . the genius of the habsburg empire , ’s prince klemens , von metternich , in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars , has been its failure to push france defeated france into a corner . though the metternich struggled to deter any possible french resurgence , he has restored france ’s prewar frontiers . on the contrary , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight is most urgently needed . by contrast , as henry kissinger famously argued , the victors in world war i could neither deter a vanquished nor provide the incentives to embrace the treaty of versailles .
america had a short brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and severe us recession in 1981/1982 . and , having detached from the transition from president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it has been politically consequential for two recessions to be identified . at the same time , sometimes dating back to a recession is a matter of judgment , to say the least . many economists believe that it was one major episode , and that is probably the appropriate means to reflect on it in a wider historical context . but , in fact , the us economy has been growing in the interim – barely enough to contemplate distinct recessions .
during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that about 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion , have been subject to some form of american sanctions . currently , america has nearly 8,000 sanctions globally , with iran ’s far its largest state-level goal . of the 67 cases in this decade , the us has been imposed by two-thirds . of the 67 cases in that decade have been imposed by the united states ’ unilateral sanctions . in the 1990s , for example , us sanctions regimes were introduced at an average rate of around seven per year .
worse , by announcing that america will withdraw from the trans-pacific partnership – intended to shape global trade and investment flows according to western rules , rather than to china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning an american policy that may check china ’s surging impact in asia . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperately trying to prop up the renminbi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s value in the face of capital flight . trump is apparently antagonizing china for no good reason . his familiarity with international economics is either non-existent or ten years away . in the same tweet , he repeated the spurious charge that china is devaluing its currency to extract america ’s export advantages against america .
likewise , russia is a country with a narrowly-based economy , led by a shia-led economy focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . china is a commonly mentioned candidate , but its leadership has tended to focus mainly on consolidating domestic order and maintaining an artificially high rate of economic-growth in order to stave off popular unrest . india is preoccupied with challenging economic development and is tied down by its contentious relationship with pakistan . china is a commonly mentioned candidate , but its leadership has tended to focus mainly on consolidating domestic order and maintaining an artificially high rate of economic-growth in order to stave off popular unrest . what we do know is that there is no alternative to great powers willing and able to step in , assuming what has been america ’s role .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and its lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . as a result , annual inflation fell in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices , for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately stopped issuing official data , seem to be stabilizing , and may even decline , albeit modestly . the slowdown in china ’s growth rate is , to some extent , reflecting the government ’s success in order to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy . since early 2010 , to contain inflation and asset-price bubbles , the chinese government has been tightening monetary policy . the newly unleashed growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china , but nonetheless spurred many to argue that china needs to stimulate its economy to guarantee 8 % annual growth .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . from a moral standpoint , there is a strong case for upholding a woman ’s personal freedoms and bodily autonomy , rather than compelling her to place her to put her own health or wellbeing at risk , by carrying an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to term . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddied by misplaced arguments , policy debates often go nowhere unless they frame abortion first and health-related issues .
the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , is keeping them off the global development agenda . with no access to education , this generation – which will soon become a majority – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . every day , more people arrive in nairobi , enticing the promise of jobs , means , and a better life , if not more so , to realize that they are not equipped to survive there , and that their children grow into a slum . at least half of those living in urban slums are under the age of 20 . but for how long will a majority serve a minority ?
the problem is that the principle can not be consistently implemented . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of costs . disasters lurking in distances are legion : disaster-relief and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions ; earthquakes and tsunamis ; over-human extinction ; rising temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and droughts ; exhaustion ; clean air and water depletion ; disappearance of forests , farms , and fish . all of these disasters – and many others still envisioned – are possible . a world in which we live is a tiny garden of well-explored territory surrounded by a dim and dark disaster forest .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , us economic policy has focused on unemployment . yet employment is only one facet of welfare ; in today ’s world , that is far from sufficient . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the great depression ’s massive job losses – reversed only when world war ii and the massive debt accumulated to fund it – had a permanent impact on at least two generations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . by contrast , the sino-american rivalry involves two economies that are closely integrated both with each other and with the outside world . the cold war of the twentieth century established two competing military alliances against each other .
between 1968 and 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the elimination of all living on the 55 islands that now constitute the british indian ocean region ( biot ) and that fell apart from mauritius at the height of its independence . that was done at the behest of the united states , embroiled in the vietnam war and demands , for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia as an air and naval base . the chagossians were shipped out of the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend for themselves . the way in which the inhabitants of that archipelago were systematically dispossessed and threw away their land in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy for which the west can and should make its own restitution . the british foreign office asserted that chagos had no settled population .
islamabad – late last year , pakistan has witnessed a second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his party won a general election on an anti-corruption campaign . hopes are high for a new administration that appears ready to work with both the technocrats and the opposition parties to tackle pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
owing to the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can issue emergency collateralized financing only to at least five eligible institutions – something of a problem if only your four largest banks get into difficulty , and must affirm that counterparty is financially viable before any funding can be made available . in any case , the counter-cyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during cyclical downturns now looks destined to extend involuntary holiday . but the task to determine whether a troubled entity is viable is best left to the end of the financial order . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classic , unadulterated , unadulterated , cyclical downturns . as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made available to systemically important financial institutions immediately – even when it is insolvent and resolution .
at the same time , if greece fails to adjust fully its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partly bailout by the eu and the ecb will still be likely to prevent contagion risks to the rest of the euro zone and the consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . the eu and the ecb worry about the moral hazard of any “ bailout . ” sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . a default by greece , after all , might have the same global systemic effects as the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 . fiscal adjustment and structural reform , without funding , is more fragile and liable to fail without a war chest of liquidity to prevent a run on its public debt , while appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gaining credibility .
sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , that region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . such religious parties , a coalition of which now heads of provincial governments in the north western frontier province , have been politically marginalized until given a central role for pakistan ’s military dictator , general zia ul haq , who has been leading pakistan ’s covert interventions in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and subsequent pressure from washington have led to a u-turn in pakistan ’s away from pro-jihad policies . together , human rights groups have long urged the necessity of extending farit of pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal belt , where religion-based parties have wide support . throughout his rule , rosietoe politics have grown alongside that of madrassahs and trained fighter jets and furnished by the pakistani army and american intelligence agencies .
throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . mainstream politicians may still nod to reverently when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the world is reverting to the older , more durable pattern . it is tacitly accepted that in the future , as in the past , the world will contain a wide range of economic systems and regimes . with america ’s loss of interest in the interest of the chief prop of neo-liberal policies , it has been pulled away . so history has once again once again been more triumphed over ideology .
upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez launched his firing of 40 % of pdvsa ’s employees . cash-starved pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which intensified accidents and restricted manufacturing . the first few years of his rule dominated his struggle to gain control over the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , using it as monetary cow ; many of his social programs were financed directly from the corporate budget . his hostility to foreign players in the industry ( he expropriated several american oil companies ’ holdings in 2007 ) restricted investment and held back manufacturing .
armed strikes by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear installations represent yet another possibility . but , despite these potential drawbacks , armed strikes against iran ’s nuclear installations will not stop the regime ’s regime from rebuilding , and may even create the conditions that are causing trouble for the regime ’s domestic opponents . one downside of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against american interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , employing hamas and hezbollah against israel and others . moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding it , and it might also create the conditions that are causing trouble for the regime ’s domestic opponents . iran could also interfere with its oil traffic , leading to a spike in prices and delivering yet another blow to american and global economic recovery .
there is one way to lessen the uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce that it will negotiate with the eu based on norway ’s variant of eea membership . two centuries into the eu , outgoing prime minister david cameron may well be remembered for losing two unions with europe and italy , respectively , between england and scotland . whereas the conservatives want scotland to be in a britain without a european union , the scottish nationalists want scotland in a europe without britain . and with northern ireland ’s republican party , headed by sinn fein , demanding a vote to reunify with the south , the uk ’s very existence is now squarely on the agenda . lord north is remembered for losing the british union with america .
tight-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and many of his alawite minority ’s members will struggle to survive . assad ’s war aims were reduced to avoid a decisive defeat and to seize international legitimacy in the hope of a favorable political solution . assad ’s final days , however , are unlikely to get pretty much this time . the rise of the islamic state has been to lend back to the government ’s claims that syria risks being overtaken by terrorist groups ; nonetheless , the regime finds itself increasingly isolated . a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s geography is not well suited to an orderly divide along sectarian lines .
if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of a community and have little need for a government , this is not because this belief corresponds to a objective reality . this is a narrative that afflicts all segments of society , a growing middle class no fewer than a wealthy population . there is little reason to expect that the super-rich will be able to act even less selfishly than any other group . this is a narrative that afflicts all segments of society , the middle class no fewer than the affluent . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion .
finally , central banks should establish a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to future slowdowns . here , the one explanation still stands out is the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of manufacturing , like manufacturing , toward less capital-intensive activities like services . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for the shortfall in private capital spending ; and still higher capital requirements for banks and strengthened regulation of nonbank financial institutions to stop them from excessive risk-taking . but , while it may explain why capital spending has been weak and interest rates remain low over the past three years , it can not account for why capital spending has been insufficient to keep pace with trending rates for more than three decades . if disorder has multiple causes , then multiple therapies should follow .
once again , exposure to western values has delivered yet another potemkin village ; russia presents the façade of law and democratic institutions ; but , behind it , its cardboard surface the same arbitrary rule of brutes . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner , president barack obama , president barack obama , for example , seems to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . the danger for the world is that putin ’s lawlessness is gaining traction .
democratic latin american limps sideways , because it can not run forward . there are too many entry barriers to the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit . throughout the region , eu politicians who writer octavio paz once referred to the “ philanthropic ogres ” are creating clients of eu citizens , people who expect eu demands . in latin america , many people are living with outstretched hands , let alone millions of people . democratic latin america limps sideways , because it can not run forward .
but this is not what these indexes are really measuring . instead , indexes cover variables concerning what they refer to as the “ policy space ” that is supposedly causing either competitiveness or inclusive growth . two examples of this are the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new inclusive growth and development index ( gbs ) . inclusiveness of growth has to do with income disparities and growth across different regions and social groups . for example , competitiveness has to do with its ability to increase market share without sacrificing margin or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity .
from the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s , those writing about the netherlands often lamented “ dutch disease . ” but , unlike , say , the french people , the dutch responded to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to encourage a return to work in the formal labor market . whether one deemed the dutch welfare state humane and generous , or bloated , foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . so people seldom returned to work after having lost or left a job , or did so in an underground economy , with its unreported cash payment . there have been so many generous subsidies , grants , and transfers – aimed at everyone from the truly needy to artists can not sell their work – that after-tax wages often barely exceed the benefits .
yet important segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america falls into recession in the coming months , trump is reelected . at that point , comparisons with the 1930s are inevitably coming . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but , in their perceived acceptance of trump ’s ’s re-election , large segments of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s financial and industrial elites , when hitler rose to power in the 1930s . moreover , their prognosis is not based only on fear of being mistaken once again ; many seem to have resigned themselves to such an outcome , and some might even be hoping for it .
for example , south korea ’s government recently announced its intention to raise the minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 percentage points above its current levels by 2020 . to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , providing youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . market mechanisms are insufficient to make this happen . to be sure , some asian governments have been attempting to tackle inequality with progressive redistribution policies . governments need to take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that gains are shared far more equally and sustainably .
the israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their helmets so that the think tank ’s gunners could direct their fires to egyptians just ahead of them . still , egyptian artillery had been superior , and was meant to have at least silenced the tanks ’ firing at the trench line . sharon had its troops climb over the sand dunes to re-enter the trench lines at their summit ends and invaded them – a simple maneuver that the egyptians may well defeat were able to hand down by an artillery barrage and israeli firing tanks directly at them . the israeli infantrymen blocked a central highway across sinai with an enriched box containing powerful artillery and more than 100 tanks , fronted by the three parallel trench-manned trend-manned trend-manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand ’s dunes and high ground at every end . but paratroopers , helicopter gunned , suddenly jumped the egyptian gun crews who never had a chance in hand-to-hand combat .
over the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s population has completed such a course , in part owing to requirements that people in specific positions , such as child-care workers , have first-aid certification . in the longer run , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-line aid courses . such certifications are even more relevant in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . pilot work in rural india shows that an mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to communities ’ needs with scarce resources . requiring people especially in particular occupations – including high teachers , nurses , and police officers – to acquire mental-health first-aid certificates would substantially enhance participation , thereby boosting support for those struggling with mental-health problems .
the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying from aids , even as drugs exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual property rights , because patent protection creates a barrier to essential medicines to reach the world ’s poor . but how can the benefits of a global patent system provide incentives for innovation and new breakthroughs combine with the kind of assurance that poor people gain access to medical care that they desperately need ? some quality producers of generic drugs , such as india ’s cipla , have offered to provide these drugs at prices near the expense of manufacturing . in responding to this offer ( and bad publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers squibb , the three great patent-holding companies , announced their willingness to supply an african market at “ zero profits ” – ie , at around $ 500 per patient per year for the aids drug that they produce . the costs of producing these drugs fall far below market prices , perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 a year for some three of the three drug combinations used to treat aids .
having never held an elected office , macron has formed a new party centered on himself , with support from both center-left and center-right voters . but what if populist movements ’ continued electoral success helps drive forward a wider political restructuring that ultimately boosts european democracy ? next year , the european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such political restructuring . he appears to have been able to revise french politics in the process . that reading is reinforced by macron ’s experience .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of time magazine ’s “ person on the ground ” issue featured salome karwah , a female nursing assistant who survived not only an ebola outbreak in her native liberia earlier this year , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended in maternal deaths . karwah was a hero who met with a tragic end , but so did the disease . one year ago , she died from childhood complications , a murderer that took twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic . childbirth was dangerous for women and newborn girls throughout human history .
to be sure , refugee labor poses a delicate political question for syria ’s neighbors . unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could cost their citizens jobs . the rest of the region has been keen to emulate them . an estimated two million syrians currently live outside of refugee camps , and many are working – for the most part – for the majority . an estimated two million syrians currently reside in turkey , and more than one million live in jordan .
one reason why america ’s elected obama in 2008 was that the rhetoric of american idealism had , once again , led to tens of millions of deaths and displacement . but the language used by these wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight out of the kennedy era : the proliferation of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” the trouble with obama ’s america is rooted in the contradictory nature of its governance . now that american policymakers are talking about “ liberty , ” they say , have seen people bombing campaigns , torture chambers , and the persistent threat of deadly drones . the reasons for us policymakers to choose to war in afghanistan and iraq were undoubtedly complicated .
this was followed by russian news reports that the us , china , russia , and india would conduct a trilateral military exercise , named in “ indira 2005 ” on the same scale before the end of this year . this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale military exercises . in the past , such a mix of countries was almost unthinkable , and such exercises can not be explained away as simple “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance . but that ’s because bush did not start to address an issue that is looming ever greater in the region : a changing security face in asia , given china ’s growing economic and military might . president bush ’s recent visit to asia produced little news – by design .
anticipatory city planning – based on realistic demographic projections , patient registries , and health-disclosure systems , as well as participation in urban health-knowledge networks – needs implementation . they should weigh the reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and responsibility that they need to address health and health-care outcomes . this includes new , affordable technologies , such as low-cost mobile telephony for use by community-health workers . anticipatory city planning , based on realistic demographic projections , patient registries , and health-informal-information systems , as well as participation in urban health-learning networks , needs to be implemented . this includes new , affordable technologies , such as low-cost mobile community-health telephony .
this question stands out in view of chinese public opinion in the latter phases of the tibet crisis . thrones of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets , protesting the prejudice they perceived in western media news . much to the consternation of western media , the chinese people worldwide lashed out against its supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan revolt . is this a change in china ’s media strategy or a mere short-term shift in tactics ? shanghai – the tight media control over the unrest in tibet has followed what , to some , look like far more open coverage of the devastating earthquake in sichuan province .
and nature did its part by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate carbohydrate , rather than both . and nature did its part by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate carbohydrate , rather than both . as a result , our forebears ’ forebears stayed healthy . any excess glycogen stimulated the pancreas to set out insulin that transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and that also caused the liver to store glucose as the glycogen ( the liver starker ) . thus , their livers also remained healthy . meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( the polymers of the glucose ) that had also been transported to the liver , via the glycolytic pathway and breached for power .
sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but it is home to 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there is widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already championed the fight against hiv/aids . across africa , the disease is projected to lower the average national growth rate by 2-4 percentage points per year , on average . in reality , the crisis has merely become less visible . there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and some 34 million people living with hiv/aids who require treatment to stay alive .
the uk would have to accept the sort of eu satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes to take no part in shaping . even the us has said that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade agreement with the uk . leaving aside the single market would generate grave uncertainties for the british economy , particularly its financial sector . if a democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , it would be abandoned on the basis of an economic cold . leaving aside the single market would generate grave uncertainties for the british economy , particularly its financial sector .
for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite since the “ saur revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will become even more nerve-wracking . as the curtain drops , two developments will profoundly influence both the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . the first is managing the transition to afghan control , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the second is elections , also to be held in 2014 , of a new afghan president – a process that needs to be allowed to allow the united states and its nato allies to assert plausibly that they are handing the country over to a legitimate government . as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly influence both the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . most british politicians are well aware that abandoning the european union with no post-brexit agreement will do great damage to their country . new york – watching a sophisticated democratic society knowingly walk into a predictable , avoidable national catastrophe – rare and alarming experience . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open .
after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or via military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as they have done in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvements and foreign diplomatic engagement by outside powers . normalization of relations with the us is key to political liberalization in cuba . indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening are likely to be exact only in the short run . this is no longer an option , at least for the us . after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or via military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as they did in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvements and diplomatic engagement by outside powers .
though countries have not descended on protectionism since the onset of the global financial crisis , challenging economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets while attempting to achieve external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is in order , the chance that the major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars – is slim . it is well known that weidmann does not like it when central banks , particularly the european central bank , are buying sovereign bonds . but , while vigilance is in order , the chance that the major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars – is slim . in recent years , much political activity has focused either directly or indirectly on exchange rates in ways that demonstrate new economic and political divisions .
the census bureau projects that america ’s population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . moreover , even as studies suggest that the short term , directly measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled immigrants may become important to particular sectors of the economy . today , america is the world ’s third-largest most populous country ; 50 years from now , it remains likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . the us census bureau projects that america ’s population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . not only is immigration relevant to economic power ; but , given that almost all developed countries are aging and facing a burden of providing for the older generation , it could help to reduce the sharpness of the policy problem .
a new approach is urgently needed and will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework . in fact , only two of the six major economic tasks identified by the work conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s ’s strategic agenda . calls for strengthened social security conforms to the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned companies ’ profits to fund safety-net programs , such as pensions and health care . likewise , emphasizing markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial architecture and eliminating overcapacity is compatible with its third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift toward a consumption-driven society . but what emerges from all this is yet another example of a timeworn “ kitchen sink ” approach to chinese economic policymaking , myriad proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best , and that are often beset by internal inconsistencies .
even with sticky wages and prices in europe , a global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices across world markets , all of which are important factors behind today ’s elevated european inflation levels . as europe ’s growth slows , so , too , too , will inflationary pressures . the underlying economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is plunging headlong into a severe slump , bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to this . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy – including europe – will escape its consequences . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others and allow an economic slowdown to work for it .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems intent on changing that ) , whereas poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia may once again become a menace to the continent . all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy have been quick to fall into line politically , which has enabled putin to use poland ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . as a result , whereas hungary is paying gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 – the eu ’s highest price . poles have been paying a steep price , but they have been right . all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy have been quick to fall into line politically , which has enabled putin to use poland ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel .
in fact , biopiracy is rare – so scarce that it can be addressed directly . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources ( cgiar ) . but , though accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little factual ground . instead , the world has created a kind of baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibikes scientific research , plant breeding , and the creation of intellectual property . the seed treaty has also brought under its control by its parties and secretariat the 15 research institutes that comprise the consultative group of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , influential global research partnerships .
moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , the non-state media are now publicly criticized by his economic and political agenda . with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second - and last-minute term fast approaching , the disgraced , unpopular president mahmoud abbas seems unlikely to abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . at the same time , he has downplayed the resources channeled to particular religious institutions , helped those within his circle to establish private banks by easing ordinances , and disputes over iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . in fact , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei has curtailed his illegal efforts , and has now placed a halt to mashai ’s candidacy altogether . but , with the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad having cultivated , support for the president has decreased considerably , with even state-run media denouncing ahmadinejad as a “ deviation circle . ”
the tax plan emphasized that italy , like japan , is a country of public debt and private wealth . as the economist marco fortis emphasizes , italy ’s family wealth remains , if not for long , second to none in europe . beyond boosting international credibility , two major changes to italy ’s political landscape have shaped the electoral campaign . to enhance the credibility of italy ’s public finances , monti ’s government has substantially raised taxes , particularly on real estate , while preserving the already record-high income-tax rate . under monti , italy ’s reforms were finally initiated , and markets have been calmed .
the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than when they see it reddening faces , with rage or humiliation at the hands of those in power . impeachment normally boosts leakers ’ stature , making it redundant as a deterrent . one of the toughest lessons for senior us government officials to learn – ­ – – – – – ­ including for me , when i was an australian attorney general and foreign minister – is futility in all but a minuscule minority of case , attempting to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . it does not undo its original damage and typically compounds it with further publicity . but some lines need to be drawn if good government is to be made possible , just as a zone of privacy in our personal and family lives is critical to sustaining the relationships that matter most to us .
this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as soon as possible . moreover , though may has been in may ’s “ remain ” camp during her referendum campaign , she is realizing that , as prime minister , she will be held responsible for any failure in the brexit negotiations . she wants to break out before voters recognize that the leave campaign has sold them a bogus bill of goods , including a vow to retain all the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market without having to permit free movement of labor . clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that satisfies both groups . she is also aware that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while scarcely noticed altogether .
among other things , such surveys should aim to develop a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . at the same time , data-collection efforts should incorporate a focus on mental health care . according to the global burden of disease study , health risk factors account for at least 50 % of early death and disability for adults aged 50 , and above ; for young adults , that figure drops to 26 % . to complement that effort , we must also invest to improve our understanding of how these risk factors – most often studied in conjunction with early childhood and adulthood – affect adolescents ’ health . more studies are needed to inform health policies and planning adequately .
thus , in a long conversation with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s ’s ’s military was the only institution that could save the country from its current woes . but talk of regime change may have prompted musharraf to re-enter into politics . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan . ” pakistan those days is a troubled country , politically as it has economically . only a politician with backing from major constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , with musharraf presenting himself as a candidate whom the military might support .
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to ensure stable long-term long-term growth in ways that , say , an authoritarian china may not be . the european union provides one example of how long-term binding commitments can work . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that has been debated and enacted will actually have time in place to take effect , with no risk that it will simply be repealed by successive us administrations . there are at least two ways to address this problem in a democratic context . first , governments might be more firmly tied to their predecessors ’ policy choices .
at the wef in incheon , the nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be placed prominently on each politician ’s electoral agenda , at all levels of government . the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public spending to education . moreover , ongoing cuts in aid to education must be reversed , with new financial sources – such as emerging-economy donors , private-sector foundations , and philanthropists – being mobilized . this begins with the political will and the setting of priorities . for the sdgs to be in place , education must receive higher billing , nationally , and globally .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar ’s peg ties its hands , because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , has exploded to no less than 52 % last year , pointing to inflation hitting 30 % soon . ukraine ’s current refinance rate stands at 16 % per year , 10 % less than the inflation rate , implying that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . rationing is always worse than a market for the us economy . instead , they have reverted to tight reserve requirements , effectively tightening credit rationing , and thereby triggering a domestic credit squeeze amid the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some small medium-size banks to default because of liquidity trouble .
iran would then find it difficult to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its standing would become more complicated even in iraq , despite its shi’a majority . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are equally likely to play a role . the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime , the & a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before , because neither conservatives nor reformers were prepared to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then face a united front of the arab states , backed by turkey , america , and , to some extent , by israel . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this route to failure will be concluded .
its lack of vision , divisions , an obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economy are at odds with the united states more dominant , even more so in a networked and interdependent world . as mark leonard , the european council ’s director for foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour came and went . ” the american political scientists and moravcsik are making the similar argument that european nations , france , and turkey are the only states other than america that are able to “ exert global influence across the full spectrum ” from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft power ’ . ” insofar as the term retains any meaning , the world is bipolar , and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future . its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economics are at odds with the united states ’ more dominant even than rome was
iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly said in public settings that he would not declare his preference among the candidates . while some may argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s re-election is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is actually not at all clear . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there are some rumors that i support a special candidate for the presidential election . ” but i do have one vote , and i would not set out some candidate , because the people themselves should elect their candidates based on their self-perception . tehran is iranians who will enter the polls on june 12 to elect a new president .
the republican party has only a very small majority in the senate , where the rule of filibuster requires the three-fifths majority to pass most legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block the republican tax agenda . likewise , moving to a territorial tax system will generate taxable profits , particularly in the short run , because firms repatriate some existing overseas funding shares . though net tax changes may widen the budget deficit in the short run , the stimulus effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which will cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-run deficits . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will return to surplus levels . but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower tax rates on personal income will boost taxable incomes as individuals raise earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash .
addressing the eu ’s genuine economic and social needs requires an efficient blue – or green-card policy toward economic migrants , with an overall immigration target . likewise , the eu must re-energize its operation sophia ’s initiative to combat refugee smuggling in the mediterranean sea . combining them has brought its asylum system close to collapse ; separating them would help to ensure that those in fear of their lives could receive a fair hearing , in which their rights are protected . second , europe needs to deal with its economic migrants and asylum-seekers . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis before instituting a regime .
in both cases , efforts to defend the fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals were prominent , as was true in turkey during the year leading up to its currency ’s collapse in february 2001 . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis was triggered by large public deficits . emerging-market bulls point to the fact that most major middle-income countries have substantially lowered their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them a fiscal space that they lacked in the past . will the fed ’s gradual loosening of qe add more emerging-market challenges this year ? to what extent are today ’s conditions comparable to those triggered by the 1997 asian crisis or other abrupt capital-flow reversals ?
at the same time , younger people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , possibly working 20-30 hours per week . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies enable the elderly to work more years and let everyone work fewer hours . one option is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and average working life that extends up to age 70 , and to even higher ages when healthy life expectancy continues to climb . such a reform could be implemented over a few decades , without slowing economic growth or declining prosperity . at the same time , younger people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps to work 20-30 hours a week .
prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but , because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try . denmark ’s government has done just that , and appears to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the eu . it is this commitment , by which the government is now bound . british public opinion is now so hostile , to the eu in general , and to europe in particular , that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . “ bouncing ” britain in is simply impossible .
a recent report by the bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies a new coalition . whereas president bush argues that cutting-edge technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb long-term oil imports , such measures require major changes in the transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete . more important , companies like the general electric movement commit to green goals that go well beyond government regulation . while president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb long-term oil imports , such measures call for major changes in transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete . a recent report by the bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies this new coalition .
at the same time , they should invest in acquiring communications capabilities that are similarly critical to successful careers . the important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to attain a deep understanding , rather than a rote memorization , of subjects that they study to fulfill the role of a true expert in whatever field they decide to pursue . achieving this type of education probably means pursuing what one naturally discovers interesting and engaging , whether it is finance or physiology . hardly anyone is making it all the way to the top in the business world . people in such fields are ultimately bought and sold off corporate managers as much as people in technical fields .
in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties , 59 % are already mothers , and almost two-thirds identify with organized religion . every year , 25 % of all pregnancies – some 56 million – end . but abortion is the majority in developing countries , where access to family-planning services is often limited . abortion occurs in each country , and within every socioeconomic class . but this day , it is also about spreading a message in the name of elizabeth and other women like her : abortion , whereas in many countries a political wedge for family-planning services , is simply a fact of life .
this argument is not irrelevant ; presumably , monetary policy has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a hard ecb stance . a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers wo n’t demand higher nominal wages , because they understand that this would merely result in higher interest rates and higher unemployment . the ecb should not delude itself into thinking that a small rise in interest rates will suffice . if and when wage pressure does come , the ecb will remain true to its word , perhaps forced to hike interest rates far more than it is now expecting .
megaupload enabled its 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , tv shows , and music , and some of the money raised by dotcom ( from advertising and subscribes ) has been on display at its mansion near auckland , where it has kept her rolls-royce and other exotic cars . last month , the united states rolled out legislation aimed at curbing internet piracy . dotcom ’s lawyer alleges that megaupload was merely supplying storage to its subscribers , with no control over what they store . dotcom ’s lawyer alleges that megaupload was merely supplying storage to its subscribers , with no control over what they store . but megaupload has offered cash rewards to hack users who have been shown popular with other users .
moscow – when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins in a matter of days , viewers will be brought together with the minutely choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist ones , china ’s ’s leaders have sought to transform public space and sporting events into a visible testament to their fitness and the mandate to govern . but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallels are hardly far-fetched . indeed , by choosing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer at the 1936 berlin olympics , to design a master plan to the beijing games , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics that was a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . to be sure , images that recall goose-stepping storm troopers are the last thing china ’s leaders had in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of “ harmonious development . ”
if anything , economists ’ embrace of this role has grown stronger ever since . but it has also made the subject less relevant , and it has diminished its legitimacy and credibility . to recover its credibility , economics needs to become more open to criticism of assumptions , methods , and outcomes . the inconvenient truths voiced by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely . economists are no longer viewed by a large part of the public to question the right questions or seek to answer them with integrity .
europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability , and global leadership . europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises .
in keeping with china ’s recent effort to project its “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced an image of an historic but dynamic culture at its best . a number of artists involved creating the spectacle , including the fireworks specialist cai guo qiang , dance star shen wei , and the composer tan dun , earned their glory primarily in the west . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium became the creation of a transnational design team of herzog & de meuron , with suggestions by visual performer ai weiwei . equally significant was china ’s projection as nascent leader of the new international cultural order . many artists involved in forming the spectacle , including the fireworks specialist cai guo qiang , france ’s france star shen wei , and the composer tan dun , earned their glory primarily in the west .
one of the most powerful ways to empower women anywhere , but particularly in the developing world , is by promoting financial independence . this money can then be drawn on to fund any number of items , such as small-scale business spending , school fees , or health-care costs . the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they are already doing on their own . in many areas , this means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” ” ” ” ” networks of like-minded women paying dues to build shared pools of resources . my research , covering thousands of conversations with women from india to burkina faso , has centered around one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ?
what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions made by any putative global government , but the fact that the g8 days now seem to be numbered . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spreading around the world , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . thus , the summit ’s ’s ’s ’s outcome has been far from a miracle of the day . politically and economically , china and india are more important today than some of europe ’s g8 members . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spreading globally , particularly on the other side of the atlantic .
in most areas , the epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undercutting trade-driven industrialization in africa . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate some of the short-term losses . though the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that epas early as negotiated trade gains are likely to be concentrated in several areas of agricultural goods – and to exclude least-developed countries . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate some of the short-term losses . african leaders are right to be concerned .
in 1995 , for example , the smithsonian institution in washington struggled to take a fresh look at the enola gay man , an aircraft that dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima . he demonstrated how history can be presented and appreciated in totally different ways : from an american or japanese point of view , despite the fact that nobody produces facts or falsifying sources . for americans , there has been `` a heroic or victorious account , '' in which atomic bombs represent a final blow against an aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . selection and fusion of the data is enough . jan dower , the american historian , and modern japan 's specialized , studied the issue at length .
any new deal will be perhaps ’s old deal with several bells and whistles . any new deal will likely be ’s old deal with several bells and whistles . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the eu ’s civil-service team , which had spearheaded the earlier round of negotiations . it would have to paved the way for nato to conclude the brexit debate . that show has years to run out of reach .
these movements , fomented by russia , have spawned homegrown political leaders who frighteningly , but not surprisingly , resemble putin and erdoğan . likewise , the us ’s inability to come together to halt syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war-crimes charges against his own people has left the void filled by putin and iran . europe ’s leaders all too often shout from the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood were not bad enough , we have also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take over within europe itself . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , notably france , have been busily constructing illiberal intra-eu states .
a shared framework also needs to be crafted so that such programs can be scaled up and implemented across different contexts . as the nature of work change , so must the nature of benefit systems . for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” ” ” ” ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would enable schemes to operate across borders , at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would preserve their value as they shifted with those that earned them . to deliver opportunities and safety to everyone , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ urgent and evolving needs .
on the surface , and below , brazil has produced a dramatic turn : inflation is down to negligible levels . if and when the two sides are involved , brazilian policymakers will shed little tears for international investors . moreover , even without timely fixes , brazil will respond to the crisis in a much different way towards mexico . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are fretting few tears for international investors . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers have been in awe of wall street ; brazil has no such hang on .
empowering markets to drive radical change in energy and land use is great ; but , as the 2017 storm should remind us , the climate emergency that we face demands vigorous and urgent action . by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land-conservation strategies , more heat-trapping gases can be locked in our forests and soils . transforming how people acquire and consume energy , and using land , will require powerful incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . but do n’t act as desperation : there is still time to rescue our climate . by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be locked out of forests and soils .
several contenders , including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke , do not fully agree on the details of such schemes , or simply have not spelled out them . but after former us president barack obama attempted to rectify america ’s health-care catastrophe with halfway measures , arguably the most that was politically feasible at a time when those vying for the democratic nomination clearly had more ambitious plans . warren , meanwhile , has suggested the introduction of universal childcare , to be financed with a wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million . many democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of government-funded health care . but their proposals – a single-payer system ( “ “ medicare for all ” ) , a national health service , or something else – do n’t mean the same thing .
in the language of economists , centrist politicians face the problem of asymmetrical information . they proclaim themselves as reformers , but why should voters believe that leaders who appear no different from the earlier crop of politicians that oversold them from globalization and pooh-pooed their grievances ? when mainstream politicians are losing their credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises they make . but there is another explanation , one that is fully consistent with rationality and self-interest . voters are much more beholden to candidates with anti-establishment credentials and may safely be expected to depart from prevailing policies .
though kagame remains popular , his government has been widely criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . today , the leaders of rwanda , widely seen as an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . politically , rwanda is powerful , disciplined , and organized , but it is not liberal . the landslide reelection of president paul kagame last year had more to do with power than with democracy . the bottom line , i draw , is not that human rights may matter , but rather that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is sustained by sustained economic and institutional governance .
cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on a threshold of safety , stability , and predictability . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest in doing so : nobody benefits from the expansion of systemic risk . it is this threshold , which appears to be under threat , to be contained . in terms of priorities , it is arguably more important for g-20 governments to strengthen core systems that enable global flows than they are to be addressed on strictly economic issues . continued economic progress in the developing world , together with recoveries in advanced countries , demands to prevent local and regional conflicts from delivering large systemic shocks .
talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focused on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . but leading us banks are also being accused of illegal behavior – inducing people to borrow , for example , by deceiving them about interest rates that would actually pay off , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . if these charges are true , bank executives involved can fear that citizen lawsuits would uncover evidence that citizen lawsuits might be applied in criminal prosecution . but , thanks to the efforts of the new york fed ’s attorney general , eric schneiderman , and others , serious discussion has started in the united states about the out-face of court mortgage settlements among state attorney general generals and prominent financial-sector firms . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focused on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their inhabitants .
“ over rivers and down highways and along the myriad of jungle journeys , east pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage in india : the unorganized flow of refugees with few tin kettles , the cardboard boxes , and the ragged dress piled on their heads , bearing their sick children and their old . they are silent , other than the child ’s whimpering now and then , but their faces tell the story . many are ill , and covered by socrates . others have cholera , and when they die by a roadside that there is no one to bury them . “ over rivers and down highways and along myriad jungle journeys , ” eastern pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage in india : the unorganized flow of refugees with few tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and the ragged dress piled on their heads , bearing their sick children and their old .
at stake is the franco-german engine driving european integration and keeping it at the heart of the postwar multilateral system . charges of currency manipulation and the threats of protectionist measures have intensified . with the uk giving the world free trade in the 1840s , having now opted for it alone , the old atlantic charter ’s allies are putting national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . now the global spotlight is that france and its looming presidential election are turning to france . a le pen victory in early may would spell the end of the eu , leave german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a crumbling global order .
new york – at a time when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my native sri lanka , i could not wait for my first female sex education class . in our early teens , my classmates , and i had been just as curious as we had been clueless about sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply passing a book , telling we to read a specific chapter , leaving to figure out on our own . millions of young people worldwide had similar experiences , often with severe adverse effects . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already provided a wake-up call for firms and policymakers worldwide . “ if the revolution is to be made , let us rather than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
it is the world ’s largest volume exporter , and it is the world ’s second-largest economy . four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , the impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . as the us reflects china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to reflect on how china continues to fall short of overcoming systemic constraints to its long-term success . china ’s presence is felt worldwide , from mines in africa to apple shops in the united states .
us president donald trump ’s trade war has rattled confidence , but this is only a downward shove to an economy that has been already slowed as it has made the shift away from exports – and investment-led growth toward more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . a major chinese slowdown may already be unfolding . china is already the dominant global exporter , and there is neither market space nor political tolerance to allow it to preserve its earlier pace of export-led expansion . how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the intrinsic contradiction between an ever-more centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth might well fall off quite dramatically . unfortunately , the option of avoiding a consumer-led transition and continued support for exports and real-estate investment is not much attractive , either .
the arab world faces serious challenges that can be met only with more flexible , democratic political systems . alas , instead of progress , what we are seeing is a cycle of insufficient educational opportunity , leading to lack of economic opportunity . a well-educated citizenry is also indispensable if young men and women gain the skills they need to perform the job opportunities of today ’s globalized and competitive world . a well-educated citizenry requires an informed citizenry that can question its national governments . the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy .
but the seeds for this larger conflagration were sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . with the kurds – most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the united nations security council has remained typically silent , while the europeans have denounced everything and everybody who participated . absent any coherent policy , the conditions were ripe for a crisis . as foreign-policy catastrophes go , this is one for the record books . the president has threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if it does whatever it was doing .
it is well documented that europe and the united states have underinvested in infrastructure . from a macroeconomic perspective , infrastructure investment is a “ twofer ” ; it boosts productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and it boosts demand , output , and employment with a substantial multiplier effect in the short run . and such an approach would cement the notion that central-bank policy is “ the only game in city , ” relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility to the pro-growth policies and the fiscal decisions they control . but a <UNK> ter-money program – a fanciful idea , when milton friedman proposed in 1969 – would be a radical departure to policymakers as well , requiring an abundance of prudence about citizen and investor perceptions , trust , and firm governance structures . a less risky and time-tested route to stimulating demand would be a substantial increase in government-financed infrastructure investment .
in the last 30 years alone , only 317 of the 676 projects sanctioned by parliament have been completed , and it is hard to imagine how railroads will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the outstanding 359 projects . as a result , railroads are running out of cash before they run out of plans . with the government losing $ 4.5 billion each year by subsidizing passenger fares , it has very little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improvements in safety standards , or speeding up trains . and , if all of this were not bad enough , india ’s leadership appears to be failing to recognize the challenges that its railways present . with the government losing $ 4.5 billion each year by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money spent on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding its trains .
a wide range of organizations have now emerged to strengthen city governments ’ policy-making capacity to include michael bloomberg ’s government as an innovation program , fuse corps , outcomes for america , social finance , third sector capital partners , and usafconduct . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and right-leaning “ red ” states , where many are located . cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . under federalism , cities often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies .
for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the uk and america , not to mention his native australia , for the sake of profit and political influence . we need to look beyond these figures to identify who really is to blame for fomenting a political climate in which blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered a public-discourse mainstream . murdoch ’s newspapers and tv networks may just as well have patented a recipe for deceitful , dog-whistle politics that have powered trump ’s rise and the brexit vote . let ’s start with the “ patient zero ” sources of this political plague : rupert murdoch . let ’s start with a “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch .