but no amount of fancy footlabour , either pivoting or pirouetting , can diminish that region ’s importance . another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . the middle east will remain the central pillar of world energy for decades to come , whether it ultimately can export more power than instability is the key question . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , with the complexity that defies analytical consensus . are the region ’s ’s crises stem from its lack of peace with israel ?
and pakistan then becomes an even more resolute attempt to stay ahead of india . with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , there is no sign that any of the other nuclear-armed states will be able to shoring up their own ( far smaller ) arsenals , until the large two make further drastic cuts to theirs . with china taking this course , india – outside the npt , but with its 100 weapons of its own – feels the need to add to its own arsenal . this kind of deterrence the logic generates the snowball effect ; the only thing we have in common is to do . china is sharing russia with fears of america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority and growing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon .
two centuries later , this was no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution had spread were , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian subsistence benchmark . early industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred , despite the loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . how , precisely , did those accomplishments occur ? what were the small differences that turned out to matter so much ? two centuries later , this was no longer the case : until the late nineteenth century , the median standard of living standards in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution spread , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian subsistence benchmark .
may , as tight-lipped as cameron has been an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of the political strategy . may , as tight-lipped as cameron has been an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of the political strategy . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will conduct political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . the referendum ’s outcome has had little effect on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to be managed , rather than an existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers imagine . her administration has created an international trade ministry that will be accountable to draft trade arrangements with the eu and the outside world ( the european commission has previously handled such arrangements ) .
whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment . venezuela has sought to finance itself with assistance from the people ’s development bank of china , which does not impose the type of conditionality that the imf bashers dislike . the chinese have not demanded that venezuela do whatever it takes to increase the odds of its regains creditworthiness . instead , the cdb lends on clandestine terms , for uses that are undisclosed and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese firms in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment .
moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-weapons ban treaty – which would replace a fragile international moratorium – can not come into force without american senate ratification by the us senate . it featured two clips of obama saying that “ “ my ” working with republican senator dick lugar was to pass a law , ” ” and “ “ “ “ what i ’ve been going on ” to us senator dick lugar ” last may . with lugar ’s defeat , and the simultaneous exit of recent republican moderates , such as senator maine snowe of maine , ready to place national interests ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes necessary to ratify additional us-russian arms-control treaties , so that they should be negotiated . one tv advertisement has said that all of the low-end cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign . there was no explanation for this context , but what obama said in full : “ i ’ve been working with republican senator dick lugar ” to pass a law , ” and “ “ “ “ what i ’ve been going to ” senator dick lugar ” to do . ”
the soviets , with their brittle legitimacy , have always feared a betrayal . the soviets , with their brittle legitimacy , have always feared a betrayal . they have called their crime izmena rodine – the betrayal of the motherland – and have wedded this lofty moral language to moderate transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally . the soviets , with their brittle legitimacy , have always feared a betrayal . perhaps it will be imprisoned for aiding terrorists , but its betrayal generates little resentment .
and , whereas few people are now receiving ect involuntarily and , in all cases , consent is sought , a huge and growing number of receiving “ antipsychotic ” drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and a host of others whose lives are shortened by therapy , with no effort being made to seek consent . yet there is no comparable protest over the use of anti-psychotic drugs , which has similarly been enforced by people , and even used for torture prisoners . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant medication , and tranquilizers , ect has an imminent organic effect . though ect ’s opponents seem to believe that it causes brain damage , this is hard to prove . but , while ect rarely does produce a clear clinical testament to brain damage and has not been shown to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs periodically do , in the forms of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes .
the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and the top ten pacific rim countries combined annual global output of about $ 26 trillion or roughly 40 % of global gdp , respectively . but , given serious concerns that the tpp will fall into consideration of its important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and the top ten pacific rim countries with a combined annual per capita output of about $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout compares to their ambitions ; talks go beyond traditional trade issues , which account for just five of all 29 proposed chapters ; and is considering a wide range of investment and regulatory issues that will affect many millions of people – and not always positively . whether trade liberalization in general helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complicated issue .
open education promises to turn children into learning materials that are tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ freefall ” of them , combined with faster feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with development and improvement . opening up education promises to turn children into learning materials that are tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ freestanding ” materials , combined with faster feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with development and improvement . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage societal interactions among students and teachers around the world . late last year in cape town , the us joined delegates from around the world to achieve a consensus on open education ’s ideals and approaches , and committed to them at the cape town ’s open-education declaration , which was formally launched on january 22 . the exciting thing about open education is that free approaches are only just the start .
in other words , hazy language is necessary to obscure unsavory realities . almost 70 years ago , when george orwell explored the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered a rather straightforward explanation that “ “ political speech ” and writing are largely the defenses of indefensible . in other words , there is a need for hazy language to obscure unsavory realities . what , in his opinion , are the limits to american engagement ? massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacifying , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ”
brussels – to many people in the west , china appears to have been walking away from a land that is “ keeping a cool head and maintaining low profile , ” let alone mid-level , ” ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves the good international bust-up . nor is it reassuring to remember that china , up to now , has been stubbornly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in major insulting military systems and pillory western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . yet the turning point toward that this litany of problems is not nearly as much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as demonstrating the dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ normal ” ” ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of millions of people that it still needs to lift itself out of poverty . chinese leadership , it seems , seems to recognize this dilemma , and is genuinely anxious to get into a bitter contest with the west or its neighbors . putting the australian mining executive behind bars over the last ten years , wringing google , keeping the european union at bay in the event of an important dialogue , and letting a middle - level - level - or middle-- level - official finger-finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is , after all the best way to persuade the partners of your constructive intentions .
if that continues , europe will lose its clout in world affairs , and gradually become irrelevant . yet the us has succeeded in ameliorating it – not only normalization of relations , but ending the cold war confrontation itself . the international situation at that time has been no less dangerous than it is today . fortunately , the historical experience of the 1980s suggests a way forward . this has been accomplished , first and foremost , through dialogue .
and , as economists david autor of david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen show , american industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also witnessed the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . such factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms that have fewer employees in need of labor . but confronting it will require that we reinvent antitrust services for the digital age . and , as economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , and john van reenen show , american industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also witnessed the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . these factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms that have fewer employees in need of labor .
unfortunately not : progress has resulted almost exclusively from much-maligned financial markets . just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi has been brought down not by political opponents , but by jittery investors , it has been markets , not european leaders , that have opened the door to european fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration , either . do we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s ’s ’s political leaders , especially that of italy ’s “ merkozy ” “ merkozy ” couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? and whom should we thank for all that european progress ?
forecasts for america ’s economic growth have been revised downward considerably since the federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus seem to illustrate the global nature of the problem that we are facing . and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the american dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing industries could slow the american economy , undermining their import demand , and thus harming the very word of us exporters . demand remains depressed with the debt overhang accumulated prior to 2008 . indeed , this pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply been shifted between sectors and countries .
paris – us president donald trump has been rocked by a transatlantic alliance that has long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete ” and the european union an extra vehicle for germany . the united states , its positions indicate , would do more than fine . with trump , the world has become accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals . the eu is about to crumble , it predicted , with the succession of countries following the united kingdom .
russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to be a global competitor in a wide range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear power , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware , and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail transport , petrochemicals , and heavy transport facilities and hydrocarbon industries . but achieving the long-term growth , led by high-tech industries , requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign actors . moreover , the social and political landscape must be conducive to a high-tech labor force , providing an attractive quality of life , securing civil liberties , and fostering entrepreneurship and creativity . all of these industries will reap the potential for enormous demand growth in major markets , such as china , africa , and india . those that have survived have barely done so , with greatly reduced output going primarily to the ex-soviet countries .
yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which implies little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , this is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . a return to public investment affects both the presence or the absence of complementary reforms , which vary from a country to a country . in fact , the right type of public-sector investment would most likely spur more private-sector investment . and there is some potential for abuses , with expenditures misclassified as investment . to be sure , the situation is not being slashed and dried up .
outside the united states , women have already reached the highest levels of power . in germany , german chancellor angela merkel , having won three consecutive general elections , is revered or resented by her own austerity policies , rather than because she is a woman . the central issue in these tv programs is not that women are playing the leading roles . argentina ’s then-president cristina fernández de kirchner is being attacked for mismanaging the economy , and america ’s banking interests in forcing a debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors are not because she is a woman . outside the united states , women have already reached the highest levels of power .
with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until the end of 2015 . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous and therefore uninformative . the us federal open market committee ( fomc ) – comprising the fed ’s governors and presidents of the regional federal reserve banks – has agreed that the us federal funds rate will stay at its current near-zero level , until the unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % , and may be expected to remain there or fall further . the fed warns that it may raise the federal funds rate if the predicted annual inflation rate rises from its current level of just under 2 % to just over 2.5 % . bernanke has stressed that the two policies are on separate tracks , responding to various estimates of the economy ’s performance .
russia , prokhorov , concludes , is a “ feudal society , ” with putin ’s outsize political clout and economic mismanagement aggravating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that afflicts many of the oil-exporting countries . during the past two decades , social inequality has been rising starkly . two million educated professionals have recently emigrated from russia . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia amounts to only 6-10 % of that in the us , which is why the economy struggles even as oil prices rise , its main exports are peaking . and , with housing , health care , and education becoming less widely available now than they did in the late 1980 ’s , his policy program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital , the key problem holding back russia ’s economy .
the world erred in enabling north korea to pass a nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make the same mistake yet again . meanwhile , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s neighbors ’ fears , several of which will be tempted to hedge their bets against iran for a potential breakaway country in the next 15 years by pursuing their own nuclear programs . it is important that the united states ( ideally joined by other countries ) will allow iran to know that any action to place itself in the field of nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluding the accord , will not be tolerated . iran should likewise be told that the u.s. and its allies would pledge a preemptive military strike should it emerge if it appears that efforts to present a fait accompli world . harsh sanctions should be introduced , at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakaway world ; this is also not precluded by the npt .
in the years ahead , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s election will almost surely turn out to be bad for greece . short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the currency ’s underlying strength . for starters , the us dollar has shot up since the election only because trump promised to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up spending on the decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly depleted military . this will spur near-term economic growth , and will inevitably push interest rates higher . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally , especially as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks is far more telling .
europe ’s leaders could easily neutralize may ’s threat to a no-deal brexit , and thus remove any need to offer concessions that are demanding . but this happy outlook for may rests on one crucial premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain virtually unchanged . throughout her political career , may has used procrastination as a winning strategy . like home secretary , she has often championed battles against other eu ministers simply by refusing to express her views , or even appearing at the meetings until minutes before brexit decisions must be made . to do that , they need to understand the method behind may ’s june 8 strategy of indecision and delay .
and it ranks 58th per institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability . the problem is the most acute in finance , real-estate , business services , and the commonwealth and government service industries . in recent months , north korea has launched multiple ballistic missile launches and conducted a nuclear test , spurring an exchange of incendiary rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump ’s administration . externally , south koreans are highly vulnerable to an escalation of north korea ’s nuclear threat . finally , service-industry productivity amounts to only 45 % of gdp , on average , compared to the oecd average of more than 90 % .
second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces the reactionary powers that oppose liberal democracy . as long as russia continues along the imperialist lines , its democracy is bound to be at risk . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , slavery in the us , show that , as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to the colonial subjects of members or specific groups . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the former soviet state feed on resources devoted to expanding russian influence in non-russian republics . this is no sustainable for smolensk ’s people to live under constitutional democracy , whereas grozny citizens and sukhumi are victims of wanton shelling and destruction .
neither the japanese government ’s responsibility for initiating and continuing war , nor the inhumane treatment that wartime prisoners suffered under japanese rule , are adequately acknowledged . at the hiroshima museum itself , the victims ’ role was exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . from a japanese perspective , an `` victimization '' has been exploited in which `` atomic bombs '' became a symbol of a particular kind of suffering -- rather like the holocaust of the jews of jews . neither the japanese government 's responsibility for initiating and continuing war , nor the inhumane treatment that wartime prisoners suffered under japanese rule , are adequately admitted . whether we identify with heroes or victims , with airplanes ' pilots that put an end to wwii , or with a passive population subjected to the hell of atomic annihilation , we are always rooting for `` innocents '' and good guys .
the intended recipients of such actions should be defined as rights-holders . the framework also should include the indiscriminate requirement , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups – not only well-connected , literate , and regime favorites – and not just the groups to which fast can win . accountability mechanisms are needed to establish , allow victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . this removes the stigma of charities and empowering victims . rather than helping them have unsatisfied needs , they are afforded remedies , because their rights are being violated .
first , american firms wishing to do business in china are obligated to have a chinese partner , and to share their technology with that firm . the most important problem facing the us is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . the chinese are doing this in two ways ; the chinese are doing so . that the compulsory sharing of technology is explicitly forbidden by the rules of the world trade organization ( wto ) . it is the case that the chinese are stealing american firms ’ products of technology , and using it to help chinese firms to compete on these same firms in china and worldwide .
though the world ’s newest country emerged from the bitter civil war between christianity and muslims , the independence referendum received an average of 99 % of all support . yet , today , 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted that has nothing to do with islam and anything to do with the struggle along the ethnic lines to check the country ’s resources . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against the purification , which is a struggle within islam . it ripping countries and regions besides , rafia people to travel halfway around the world to join jihad and threatens to unleash more violence against muslims , just as they did against christianity , jews , and others . yet the struggle within islam is not a satisfactory or reasonable explanation of the status quo of anarchy that we are seeing in a region like south sudan , whose 11 million people gained their independence just three years ago .
in the american case of the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , started as an agenda by which the us treasury department bought problematic , largely mortgaging assets from financial institutions . hoping to prevent a run on the bank , the iranian government offered a blanket guarantee of all banking deposits . but this proved to be more complicated than originally thought , and in a matter of weeks the us government simply recapitalized american banks in the eu . with that one unilateral decision , ireland was destabilized by the rest of europe . other misjudgments have not been so easy to turn over again .
hate speech and other forms of dangerous , and illegal content must be attacked at a source . on one hand , there is a need for increased media literacy across the segment of consumers that are needed to teach them , from the young age , the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other hand , it demands a more fundamental rethink of business models , which facilitate , and even reward , hate speech . on the other hand , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models , which facilitate , and even reward , hate speech . yet this is no quick fix , either .
regardless of what one thinks of britain leaving the eu , one general and one specific to brexit can be asked . first , to what extent should the citizens of a democracy be allowed to make decisions directly , in a referendum , rather than through their elected representatives ? independently of what one thinks of britain exiting the eu , one can ask two additional questions , one general and one specific to brexit . in earlier times , the small city-state might have been direct democracies ; but in larger countries , where communication has been sluggish , it has been necessary to elect representatives to make decisions on the many issues it needs to be negotiated and voted out . on the larger question , the strongest argument for a direct democracy is that it follows from the notion of democracy itself , which is subject only to feasibility constraints .
what encryption supporters recognize is that if american companies maintain the power to unblock their customers ’ data and installations in the request , governments other than the united states will require the same level of access , as well as being emboldened to require the same capability of their home firms . america ’s government will be unable to object , given its own policies . in addition to “ “ undermining ” every america ’s cyber security and a nation ’s ’s ’s economic security , ” ” ” ” signers have argued that “ introducing new vulnerability to weakening american encrypted products would also undermine human rights and information security worldwide . ” a big coalition of technology firms and civil-society organizations recently dispatched a letter to former us president barack obama to argue against backdoors . they regard a back-door request in the same manner that the us automobile manufacturer would view as a demand for a defective engine .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america 's interests elsewhere around the world . kuala lumpur – for example , malaysia under prime minister mahathir mohamad – suddenly finds itself with a political scandal , following an online circulation of sex videos involving the cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice the consequent imprisonment of the people ’s party chief of justice anwar ibrahim . sadly , the latest drama , like those earlier this , risks obscuring more fundamental issues .
macron also signaled his intention to pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament election . like a democrat , he believes that deepening the european union must go hand hand in hand with the evolution of a genuinely european political space . yet is politics really turning the page on the traditional left-right cleavage ? at a time of much hand-wringing over the fall of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s unapologetically internationalist attitude is notable . indeed , macron took a leap into the unknown westernizes of western politics , ’s ” terrain no longer defined entirely by competition among large center-right and center-left parties .
in fact , its very plausibility is one reason to have to be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners . this outcome – which would shift a sharply upward shift in east asian countries ’ strategic balance in china ’s favor – is not nearly as unlikely as most people think . fewer , however , have recognized that the least misguided military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china assume responsibility for its rogue neighbor – is a chinese invasion or regime change forced by china ’s threat to launch one . indeed , its very plausibility is one reason for it to be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners . london – most pundits seem to agree that the least wrong way to come to terms with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling represents an ongoing combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy .
nor is it just facebook and google , apple , or amazai , apple , or amazon , which harvest and uses our data for whatever purposes one might think , ” ” spiekermann says . “’ data management platforms , like those conducted by acxiom or oracle bluekai , possess thousands of personal attributes , as well as socio-engineering profiles of hundreds of millions of users . ” as a result , more than 1,000 firms now participate in the digital-information value chain , which harvests data out of any online activity , and they deliver targeted online or mobile user content within roughly 36 seconds of entering the digital realm . spiekermann , the global authority on the deal with our online identities for purposes of targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” spiekermann , the global authority on the deal with our online identities for targeted advertisements , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal ” data markets .
it gives poor access to a broader range of commodities , while giving firms more diversified selection of inputs . given constraints on inter-sectoral labor mobility , stemming from labor-acquisition barriers and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such change occurs . but increased trade also can eliminate low-skill factory jobs and reduce agricultural prices , outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustments in the short run . in india , for example , poverty has declined even more slowly in areas where farmers are faced with increased foreign competition .
and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions may enjoy the majority of benefits from such a mirror , those who have historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to place it down . for kenya , the very nation ’s very public decline has come at a steep price . it also means holding media owners accountable . and yet it has also proven that press freedom implies far more than letting journalists tell them what they want when they want and how to put it down . kenyans need a similar pattern of reflection today .
the good news -- and the bad -- is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is rapid enough to become obsolete well before it is worn out , or even used , enabling new investment to begin more quickly than it otherwise would have been . there remains a significant capacity overhang , like the fiber optic lines , which remain murky , to see any light pass through them so far . the 2001 recession combined an inventory downturn with an investment slump . the first comes to an end now ; the latter -- the product of overinvestment in high technology and telecommunications -- sectors that were so vital during the boom years of the late 1980 's -- may last very long . simply put , there has been a significant capacity overhang -- like the fiber optic lines , which remain dark -- to see any light pass through .
by then , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . that , at least , is the formal blueprint . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like the rats in sack , will have to come up with a package . once the bureaucracy and the broad parameters for negotiations are established early in the coming year , may will formally launch the exit process by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) are to follow .
warsaw – in paris , western berlin , western berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 marked the student protests of the vietnam war . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chanting “ ho , ” ho chi minh ” in solidarity with viet cong , but rather to defend their own country ’s freedom and culture toward smothering communist rule . in warsaw , too , students were protesting , but their cause was not the same thing as their western counterparts . instead of chanting ho ’s name , young poles put flowers beneath the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama foreeve , writing in praise of the struggle for liberty , was recently proclaimed subversive and anti-soviet , and performing at national theater in warsaw closed . these are just a few differences between western and eastern european students in this springtime of rebellion in forty years ago .
consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality , running from the zero value of perfect equality to $ 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . crucially , figures are comparable across much of the middle – and low - and middle-income countries , as well as the data available for advanced countries . preliminary conclusions emerge from these studies illuminate political debates , and are likely to annoy ideologues of both the far right and the left . starting in a recent paper , lustig argues , world income inequality does not rise . average gini score ( rather than weighted by population ) in countries where there are data declined only in the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 .
as it stands , the chinese government is keen to sustain a decent growth rate of around 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . likewise , while policies encouraging firms to raise wages will drive up household incomes and domestic consumption , wage increases may erode their export competitiveness and choke off foreign direct investment inflows . the risk now is that , until the reform measures take effect , the authorities can count on short-term stimulus to meet their growth targets , aggravating the resource misallocation , and structural vulnerabilities . the last bit of the puzzle for china is realism . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity .
it is worth remembering that to join the eu , hungary was forced to conform to its stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and its adherence to the rule of law . but orbán is doing this in the eu as a whole in 2017 . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically eroded has laid bare the paradox for the eu . and , by shutting down such a prominent us-supported institution so far , he can dispatch the message that no one who opposed it has won . in fact , despots throughout history have used the same tactics .
soros : the ecb is a well-functioning institution . so long as it behaves within its powers , germany is in no position to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something truly significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . soros : i have been discussing this in 2000 in my book the great depression of global capitalism . this is why i am hopeful that something truly significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors .
moreover , it is not as though a flat capital-gains tax will impede social mobility or increase poverty . indeed , since sweden adopted the same type of taxation system in 1991 , its average annual rate of productivity growth has increased by a factor of only four . indeed , since sweden adopted the same type of taxation system in 1991 , its average annual rate of productivity growth has increased by a factor of four . macron ’s ’s ’s revolution is on the move . by moving away from the universal eligibility system at the university level to one that finds a more convenient fit for every graduate student in france , france stands to benefit from greater genuine equality and greater social mobility .
in addition to individual firms , entire value chains , which contribute heavily to a country ’s gdp have suffered from an abrupt operation and a financial freeze . yet , while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-run political and economic falsehood , it is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . reforming brazil ’s relationship with the public and private sector can improve the country ’s long-run economic performance . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in the illicit dealings have a higher probability of falling and being punished , regardless of their social standing . ongoing prosecutions have already transformed the calculus behind any single economic agent , who thinks of violations of the public ’s trust for private gain .
even in the new eu member states , the enthusiasm of the european family of eu democracies is cooling . many are turning their back on the whole project as a whole . as union races ahead , this seems to have lost european citizens along the way . they have trouble seeing what is common to the european union . they have trouble seeing what is common to europe .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who has lied about his dealings with the russian ambassador during the transition ( most likely about lifting the sanctions imposed by us president barack obama on russian firms ) . moreover , us president donald trump ’s son , jr. , together with other top campaign officials , met in trump ’s tower with ties to the kremlin that promise “ dirt ” on hillary clinton . trump himself remains vulnerable to the investigations initiated by or handed away by the federal and state prosecutors outside the washington post . another prominent escapee from the special counsel gary flynn was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house role , particularly in us foreign policy ( in which he has no experience ) to attend his family ’s need for funds to pay off enormous real-estate debt . trump himself remains vulnerable to the investigations initiated by or handed off by the federal and state prosecutors outside washington .
in fact , america and its allies simply dislike the results of arab democracy , which all too often generate governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . in fact , the american and its allies simply dislike the results of arab democracy , which all too often generate governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and threatening america ’s own oil interests . the us can not stop the downward spiral of violence in the middle east . backroom dealings and violence continue to rule on a daily basis . in fact , both the american and its allies simply dislike the results of arab democracy , which all too often generate governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to american oil interests .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world is rousing against an aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa and south-east asia . in parts of south africa , as many as 20 % of the world ’s adults are afflicted by aids virus ; virtually all are marked by early deaths . in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of all adults live with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked by early deaths . the pandemic claimed 19 million lives , creating 13 million orphans of the disease . whereas the first identified in the u.s. during the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million people are suffering in africa ; six million people are dying from it in africa ; six million more in asia .
as a result , the skies are usually conceptualized . oceans belong to everyone except those near the landmasses who are steered in similar ways toward a country ’s land-bound borders . airliners and fighter jets operate in “ controlled ” ” air close to earth , whereas nationality supposedly matters the less the greater you go . in most cases , skies laws mirror those that govern the world ’s oceans . fragile treaties covering this are enforced largely by allowing few nations to afford them to place assets at large .
and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is just the start of the digital age and the end of the industrial age entirely . in fact , few other trends constitute a larger threat to global stability . almost all societies have become heavily reliant on the internet , the world bank , most prominently infrastructure , and also the infrastructure upon which all of the other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ “ internet of things ” “ internet of things . ” the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities , which hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors are already routinely exploiting .
china ’s pre-reform strategy has rejected the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that the us economy generates some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and the climate . jamaica , say , does not produce frozen salmon or hockey players , because investment in industries like citrus fruits and tourism delivers far more certain returns . likewise , wto membership will push the government to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against capital-intensive economies , including from agriculture . the same wto-induced secular adjustment underlies the decline in steel and textiles in advanced countries like america . in china , most soes have survived , because central planners have stressed economic autarky , no matter how much .
whereas the league party promises to slash taxes , the five star movement ( m5s ) pursues a form of fundamental income . still , the mainstream political parties that have governed italy until this year have failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . whereas the league party promises to slash taxes , the five star movement ( m5s ) is pursuing a form of basic income . yet , before assuming office , italy ’s cyclically-adjusted fiscal deficit , in the face of its underlying debt position , often restrained relative to the rest of the eurozone , as are other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , italy , the united kingdom , and the united kingdom ) . there are also some who believe that italy ’s fiscal and exchange-rate framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , perhaps too-low inflation and high debt .
stimulating foreign investment , or liberalizing everything , and then waiting for things to get better , does n’t work . an effective strategy needs to accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional areas , and weed out the projects and investment that go bankrupt . for this to happen , governments need to deploy both the carrot and the stick . the carrot is required , because there is large social value in discovering , say , that cutting flowers , or soccer balls , or computer software can be produced at low cost , because that knowledge can orient investment from other entrepreneurs . learning which one country is ( or can be ) good at producing represents a key challenge to economic development .
if the us trade deficit reduces at least 3 % of gdp from now to the end of the decade , and with the full effect that the dollar ’s decline translates into an increase in us exports and a decline in imports would reduce america ’s real incomes by about 0.4 % annually . combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the us cyclical rebound effect , an estimated 1.2 % annual growth rate would generate real gdp growth at an average annual rate of about 2.6 % , well above the 1.9 % pace of the decade ending in 2009 . the effect of the us dollar ’s decline over the next decade could be just as significant . but not all of the extra output generated over the next decade will remain in the us . if the us trade deficit declines at an average rate of 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied surge in us exports and fall in imports would reduce america ’s real incomes by about 0.3 % a year .
as a result , argentina must either pay off to the holdouts in full or to default on its new bonds . under the court order , argentina may not be able to pay off holders of its new bonds unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as an intermediary to make payments to argentina . the u.s. second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its holdout obligations to bondholders in the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of exchange bonds . holdouts argued that if new bonds had been serviced at full ( as they are ) , the equal treatment required that holdouts should receive the full amount that they owe ( including not only the interest but also principal ) . it was this ruling that the supreme court recently upheld .
this matters , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise , rather than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . but china is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry . zhou bo , a honorary fellow with the pla academy of military sciences , concedes that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ powerful yet benign ” power . india is certainly suspicious of china ’s behavior in the region . zhou bo , a honorary fellow with the pla academy of military sciences , concedes that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally transform the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ strong ” power .
and it will reinforce the national anti-terror effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . yet sharif had been the honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . indian citizens , who had thought that they had voted for change , are starting to unravel whether the bjp has simply reprised the government ’s policies . likewise , the modi government has adopted a upa-proposed goods and services tax that was stalled by opposition from the bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gujarat gujarat ) . and it will strengthen the national anti-terror effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism .
we should look to the helsinki process to demonstrate how to retrieve what was lost . in every conflict , human rights are among the first casualties ; and , in the middle east , the degradation of human dignity degradation has now undone the international covenant that has been agreed over a few generations . europe ’s ’s ’s ’s contributions to the middle east have been far-reaching . with today ’s emphasis on military action in what was called the war on terror , ” ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military issues , combined with the stability charter , has become urgent . a regional agenda must be designed to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy comprising energy and water policies , arms control , and debt reduction .
when the oecd proposed an agreement to restrict bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . they did whatever they could to ensure that no meaningful reform occurred during the great depression , with the perception that post-crisis momentum toward reform would dissipate . who , after all , might have anticipated that bill clinton would follow up with an american president committed to undermining the multilateral system in any of its manifold manifestations ? for example , when the imf correctly hinted at a better path to debt restructuring ( an procedure of international bankruptcy ) , america vetoed the initiative . they did whatever it could to ensure that no meaningful reform occurred during the great depression , with the perception that post-crisis momentum toward reform would dissipate .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents assembled in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom ’s return to china 20 years ago . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted on chinese soil . yet , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s executive board . and , to attendees , hong kong ’s showmanship has reflected rising frustration , not only with china ’s leaders , but also with its own .
and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also needs to represent an effective diagnosis of the situation faced by the group . what plays well with one group may not sit well with another . to choose the goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not just solicit the input of their followers ; they must also make sense of the context of their choices . leaders need to get the question right before proposing answers . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also must represent an effective diagnosis of how one faces .
if anything , power becomes more highly centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control the supply of strategic commodities , given the scarcity that they cause . but , by making matters worse , economic sanctions are taking their toll mainly on the private sector . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . sixth , the sanctions are said to be weakening targeted governments . but , by making matters worse , the business and investment climate is taking their toll mainly on the private sector .
no power anywhere , within or without the region , is willing and able to realize the lofty vision of a new regional order , or even a vision for parts of it . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear vision of what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and the protection of return to the imperial russian empires . none of this applies to the middle east ’s crisis belt . central and eastern europe after 1989 , while a very interesting benchmark for arab analysts of the arab revolutions is not an adequate benchmark , as the region ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new homegrown and foreign order resulted from a shift in external conditions stemming from the cold war ’s collapse . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union was a logical outcome .
it has now taken the first step toward reversing its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate , to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint – to america ’s economy . in fact , it is a dangerous mistake , and one that will have to do so . after an extended period of exceptional monetary accommodation , america ’s federal reserve began its long march toward normalization , following an expanded period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve began its long march toward normalization . the us majority in the world ’s financial market participants applaud this strategy , and it is still clear that it will have to do so . the new haven , by now , is an all-too-familiar drill .
higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk , not least for fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees must be honored . furthermore , the buildup of risk within the financial system – which accompanies higher leverage – is both hard to measure , and will likely materialize only after a couple of years ( for example , after the governor ’s term has expired ) . de gregorio ’s views vary from those of many of his peers in other countries , because he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become larger and to apply what he calls “ smart ” strategies that require large amounts of leverage . the dangers for central banks stemmed from the lack of consideration of the implicit subsidies given to major financial institutions . by holding banks and other private-sector firms out of debt , vulnerability to shocks declines .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny of what russian president vladimir putin stands out in syria , and why . like assad ’s government , and , as badly as assad ’s government may respond , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse . much of the analysis , though narrowly focused on the short run , and may turn out to be far too negative in assessing its actions ’ likely long-term consequences . russia ’s bomb and missile launches are now raining at a time of fighting the syrian government ’s forces , which have given the regime the breathing space it has been meant to provide . what we do know is that putin has opted out of assistance from bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime .
the data pattern is reasonably clear : as a country becomes wealthier , there are fewer antithetical anti-subsidy , or anti-dumping cases against it . that may be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trade framework . using 2017 data , we find that many anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by any wto member country against exporting countries ( a log of which is on the vertical graph below ) tends to decline as an exporter ’s income level ( shown by a log on a horizontal axis ) . every blue dot on its graph represents the wto ’s member economies , and a solid black line indicates an international average ( drawn from all member economies except china ) . each blue dot on its graph represents the wto ’s member economies , and a robust black line indicates the international average ( drawn from all member economies except china ) .
most bets are on britain formally leaves the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will scoff at such a “ soft ” exit , but this will most likely be sufficient to secure parliamentary approval . should the brexit trajectory turn out this route , it will be a good illustration of the twin character of – and function – politics . most bets are on britain formally exiting the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . brexiteers will scoff at such a “ soft ” exit , but this will most likely be enough to secure parliamentary approval .
europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians , and turks , palestinians , palestinians , and tunisians rubbed their shoulders . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east roads map , came at the heart of the attention . the novelty this year was the presence of post-saddam representatives in post-saddam iraq , among them an official from the kurdish regional government , as well as the highest-ranking shi'a high representative of the muslim state . the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : the former royals in the rolling hills of taunus in the region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians held the annual meeting of dealt with by the middle east . on the opening night , senior german foreign minister recep tayyip erdoğan , and his government , both subjects , displaying great sensibility both for israeli and palestinian concerns .
last friday , cairo has been paralyzed , despite some almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets . and ramadan – that is , mobilization-friendly – is now taking place . the past ten days of ramadan are i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers and spending nights in mosques and open areas . last friday day , cairo has been paralyzed , despite some almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets . observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including briefly sermon ) , social interactions , qiyyam ( another late-night prague ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers .
no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth , without pulling along all segments of its population and offering no voice at all . as we finance infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will seek to integrate the disenfranchised and rural areas . as africa ’s lead in development-finance institutions , the african development bank ( asean ) will support our north african members , enhancing our governance and institutions , reinforcing its social safety net , and laying the foundations for a robust economic recovery . as we finance infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will seek to integrate the disenfranchised regions and the rural areas . we are scaling up our consultations with governments and other actors , collaborating more closely with both national and regional civil-society groups and media entities , as well as with academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and sectoral associations .
a growing need for action to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : why change a victorious formula ? while the numbers have never been as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to think , they have diverted attention away from the shaky fundamentals of their newfound prosperity . the contraction in the us and stock markets will undoubtedly dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . the increasing need for action to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : just why change a victorious formula ? at the same time , even many of the poorest countries seem to have done so at long last to join in , posting vigorous growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and rising fiscal revenue .
and , by that time , more than 60 % of total cereal demand in the developing world will come from south and east asian countries . owing to its expanding middle class , the region is likely to account for about half of the global rise in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three quarters of rising fish consumption between now and 2030 . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could once again turn out to be a painful life-long reality . asia already is the world ’s top food market , with its population projected to grow to more than five billion by 2050 – an increase of more than 900 million people . manila – food shortages represent a distant memory for many in asia .
what america needs is a better explanation for its own people ’s own people , why america should be engaging more deeply with the middle east ’s mounting problems . but , whether america is engaged or not , it needs a policy . what america needs is a better explanation for its own people , why america should engage more deeply with the middle east on mounting issues . this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage in any issue at all . the situation , predicted by any pundit around , has metastasized , and risks becoming a full-blown regional civil war .
everyone , from households to companies to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : data . with attackers becoming increasingly agile and innovative , arming an increasingly diversified array of weapons , cyber-attacks are occurring at an accelerating pace , and with more sophistication than ever before . the scale of the challenge , then , should not be underestimated . london – cybersecurity is one of defining challenges to the digital age . the question now is how it can be fulfilled .
integration of migrants makes a lot of sense ; but it is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in troubled countries , with the help of a generation of emigrants that transfer resources for the first time , and then return on themselves . viewed from the perspective of such truths , eastward enlargement of europe , for example , is very desirable not despite the fact that it may lead to migration from new eu member states to the old one . this is not the only way forward , but it is not the only way forward . many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least the more rational discussion . viewed from the perspective of such truths , europe ’s eastward enlargement of the eu , for example , is very desirable not despite the fact that it may lead to migration from the new member states to the old one .
the costs are miniscule : reaching an estimated 80 % of the world ’s 140 million , or so undernourished children , would require a commitment of about $ 60 million annually , with benefits estimated to be around nine-fold . providing both the iron and iodized salt , we know that the iron deficiency leads to a cognitive and developmental problem . for $ 286 million of us might be able to acquire iodized salts , and have fortified staple food accounts to an estimated 80 % of those in worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be about nine-fold . at the same time , we know that an iron deficiency leads to a cognitive and developmental problem . fortifying the products with iron and cost as little as $ 0.12 per person each year .
even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action from policymakers . even among more near-term projects , some – such as retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action by policymakers . the largest scope for renewed private-sector investment is in capital-intensive industries , where the government has a significant presence as a regulator . standardization and liberalization in european telecoms has underpinned 9 % growth in value-added and productivity over the next decade , compared to just 6 % in the americas . numerous projects , from airports to university campuses , are benefiting from returns over decades , which imply that weak short-term demand will have only a limited effect on their overall viability . standardization and liberalization in european telecoms has underpinned 9 % growth in value-added and productivity over the course of this period , compared to just 6 % in america .
the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low as it is today . first , they argue that a great deal of convergence has already occurred in manufacturing . as a result , the emerging-market growth differential in emerging and advanced economies aggregated aggregated from the imf figures and included in hong kong , including in hong kong , singapore , south korea , and , more recently , taiwan in an emerging group , have declined considerably . first , they argue that a great deal of convergence has already occurred in manufacturing . indeed , after having averaged three percentage points for two decades , and rising toward 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential has fallen to about 2.5 last year , and is expected to be just 1.5 this year .
italy ’s current predicament should serve as a warning to all of these advocating risk sharing . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity implies that the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . under the latest eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risks should have been liable for it has been superseded by the principle of common responsibility , which implies financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when crises occur . under the latest eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risks should have been liable for it has been superseded by the eu ’s principle of common responsibility , which implies financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when crises occur . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections across the board of corporations and banks .
then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failures had brought yanukovych into power in an open and fair election , and in 2012 , putin chose himself for a third presidential term in russia . the hoped-for brexit did not emerge , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . the hoped-for brexit did not emerge , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked the implementation of any serious reform agenda . but 2004 was also a bitter failure of russian president vladimir putin ’s attempt to sack his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , into power in kyiv by sponsoring a massive vote-manipulation . the failure was a bitter coup against the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten .
following the 1997 east asia crisis , persisting even through the global financial crisis , persisting even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , it is now time for one-third “ sudden stop ” of capital flows to emerging markets . perhaps having some degree of causal theory to account for such “ periodicity ” as a result of international capital flows . the third inflows cycle occurred in 2004-2011 , persisting even via the global financial crisis . are a few data points and the biblical parable enough to take the 15-year hypothesis seriously ?
despite enormous costs – over half of the fledgling us administration ’s expenditures in early years have gone to debt service – the economy has shaken out of 1780 ’s ’s ’s depression and entered an engine of growth . in return , they would have secured votes for the federal government to assume and to repay states ’ debts . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than the us is today . jefferson and madison did not want a country of capital to be in the north , and hamilton grudgingly agreed to encourage the move to an area carved out by virginia or maryland . a responsible fiscal state emerged from this kind of grand compromise , and it would have been possible for the us .
digital id ids could play an even more expansionary role in how individuals and institutions interact with one another . digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , firms , and the government as a whole . they can also spur development , by enabling digital talent matching and streamlined employee verification , resulting in higher labor-market participation . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to reduce fraud rates , slash customer surveillance costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and credit for under-banked customers . digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , firms , and governments interact with one another .
but the second revolution , which brought lenin and the bolsheviks into power , produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of “ betrayal . ” the 1917 toppled czar nicholas ii , creating a provisional government that spearheaded by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , turned out to be a transition blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ baltimore ” of balalaika ” played by the old order to continue to deceive both workers and peasants . but if revolutions are aborted , its leaders will become unmassed as empty windbags . should the revolution continue apace , it disordered into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurrent cycle of violence .
this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to talk openly about developing the financial system ’s evolving role as a whole without worrying about the implications for individual institutions for their care . in a perfect world , one would add to the national banking regulators , but i recognize that , at that point , i started to trample on the cherished features of the american constitution ! in addition , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial monetary-policy role as a matter of principle . in a perfect world , one would add to the national banking regulators , but i recognize that , at that point , i began to trample on the cherished features of the american constitution ! the crisis showed that we need this simple talk .
in india , for example , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed as wal-mart ’s entering the us in the months ahead . but policymakers need to recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . artisanal retailers ’ survival should not be used as a pretext to introduce or uphold the business regulation that ultimately protect an incumbent rich country . the government can , say , impose zoning regulations , help small retailers find specialized market niches , or provide skills training to displaced workers . asian policymakers must remember how they successfully developed their manufacturing sectors through competition .
today ’s ’s crisis is no exception , or even the next one . the postwar us financial regulation system was established on three counts for lessons from the 1930s . toulouse – where history punishes those in the us who are failing to learn from it , financial history does its sanction with an sadistic twist – also punishes those who are learning from it too enthusiastically . the toulouse – if history punishes those who fail to learn from it , the financial history of depositors – is its punishing them as an sadistic twist as well . today ’s crisis is no exception ; neither will it be the next .
such an agreement would be the near-term boon for xi , for it represents an american confidence vote in china ’s struggling economy . the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs compelling just as much . on the practical front , a us-china trade deal would make it easy for chinese entities to invest and operate in american firms , increasing american firms ’ access to chinese markets . yet , at best , the prospects of some are dubious . for china , the greatest prize is the bilateral investment treaty .
at the same time , the report laid bare the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming may push the gulf stream shut down , turning europe into new siberia . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how a 20-meter sea-level rise over the sea level would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . at the same time , the report revealed the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming may push the gulf stream down , turning europe into new siberia . this is particularly interesting , because it fundamentally refutes one of the most harrowing scenes of harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . indeed , the ipcc ’s report makes it clear that the exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in science – though apparently frightened people , and perhaps will win gore ’s academy prize .
it is important to note that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus against any particular partner , even as its overall trade surplus rises . chinese firms , too , will enjoy lower costs for the foreign-made component and equipment , boosting their global competitiveness – another channel , through which lower import barriers can end up boosting their exports . finally , an internationally importing expo will complement china ’s other market-oriented liberalization measures , including lower entry barriers to foreign financial firms . and , though import expo expands , rather than reduce , the country ’s overall trade surplus , it may well have other advantages . for starters , lowering us imports costs will expand chinese households ’ purchasing power and access to products that can improve their quality of life .
across the west , too , many are questioning whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means to place its economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its nato ally near abroad . yet russia ’s policies toward the post-soviet countries are rooted in the doctrine of the us-led “ liberal empire , ” ” ” ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control over key economic entities across the territories of the former soviet republics by acquiring their assets . naturally , the key role of this model is to supply power to the post-soviet countries . in this regard , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to indicate that an empire of an “ new russia dream ” should be built through purely economic means , excluding all forcible actions against other nations . naturally , the key role in this model is to supply power in the post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress comes close to enacting a major tax reform . i dislike the budget deficit and have long warned of its dangerous impact . the marshall plan ’s most important provisioning reduces the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the top 1 % among all oecd countries to one of the bottom – and allows us companies to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits without paying an additional american tax . the regulatory opponents emphasize the resulting rise in the us federal budget deficit , adding $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . nonetheless , i am confident that the economic benefits resulting from corporate tax changes will outweigh those of the rising debt .
such actions are usually justified in terms of boosting domestic demand , but they end up fueling an surrogate , low-end currency war . to see why , consider japan ’s case . japanese policymakers have good reason to attempt to foster some inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s secular appreciation of the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would react soon by injecting liquidity into the us , encouraging the bank of japan to take action once again . what we need is a group of major economies – call it “ pg ” – that announces monetary policies in a coordinated fashion .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson attest to this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is the observation that during the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth has averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to just 2.5 % under republican presidents . the gap in economic performance under both democratic and republican presidents is consistent and well into line , with disparities clearly well above the threshold of statistical significance . the results are similar , even if one assigns responsibility for the first three months – or the first few quarters – of the us president ’s term to its predecessor . princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson attest to this democratic dividend in a recent study .
it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan protesters alike . it is only as preposterous to tell venezuelan protesters . venezuelans would like nothing better to be the sort of decision on their own destiny ; but the democratic means that they will do so are being denied them . indeed , one key opposition leader , tim geithner , has been arrested on the ludicrous charges of inciting criminal charges . terms in office have expired for the prosecutor-general , the members of the national electoral commission , and the supreme court ’s justices , but no successors have been given any name , because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition , and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to nominate officials for their choices .
true , far-left parties have also been making advances since the end of the post-crisis slump . yet , history suggests that the nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . classical socialism is offspring of liberal internationalism , to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . yet , faced with large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism has become precisely the point at issue . it is easy to see why .
determining the validity of such trepidation requires an understanding of what drives china ’s current economic slowdown . many are wondering whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it will be for a long time to come . at a recent g-20 finance ministers ’ meeting in shanghai , the participants were asking a lot of the same question – and not only with regard to the medium-term expectation of weak global growth . jack nicholson , for example , asks the same question , and not just with regard to the medium-term expectation of a weak global growth slowdown . london – “ “ “ what , ” if this is ‘ as good as it gets ’ ?
not surprisingly , people are using this kind of technology in ways that indicate little interest in being cordoned into conflicting , competing ethnicities , or religious identities . the internet also disseminates the templates of what genuine democracy looks like – instantly and globally . that agenda runs into an era of direct conflict with the interests of the global capital , as well as among governments that have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . overwhelmingly , they want a simple democracy and an economic self-determination process . it is the kind of conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupying moscow – gain further cohesion .
when interest rates rise , as surely must , the costs of debt-servicing costs will require higher taxation , harming economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . firms now worry that rising deficits will lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment . a rising level of national debt , in turn , absorbs funds that would otherwise be available to fund productivity-enhancing business investment . but the three largest european economies , france , italy , and the united kingdom , all have large debts and annual deficits , which indicate even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . that is an alarming prospect for all .
the fastest-growing economies in the economy since the late nineteenth century were those loosely categorized as “ service industries , ” ” ” often involving the diffusion of information and amusement jobs in which jews were particularly prominent , from publication to vaudeville , and movies to business . they pioneered new retail institutions , from the ministry of commerce to the box stores . they also tended to do disproportionately well in learned occupations such as medicine , law , and accountants , which are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fact that jews had long been a minority subject to discrimination at times as much as a cause for their inclination to dedicate themselves to commerce , finance , and occupations . yet not all minorities are long subjected to discrimination necessarily succeed in terms of market competition .
to help scale up the development and funding of sustainable infrastructure in low - and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework , developed by a single planet working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . so far , we have funded sustainable infrastructure largely through the multilateral and national development bank ( mdbs and ndbs ) . vert-infra initially covers four sub-sectors of sustainable infrastructure : power , energy storage , transportation , and buildings , with special emphasis on projects in urban areas . the framework , called the “ vision for an environmentally responsible transition , ” aims to help unblock project pipelines and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide . vert-infra initially covers four sub-sectors of sustainable infrastructure : power , energy storage , transportation , and buildings , with special emphasis on projects in urban areas .
in this tangled knot of regional wars , crisis , and conflict , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb , with plenty of new dynamite dominating all over the region . nowadays , after the world ’s financial and economic crisis ( and , unlike in 2001 , 2001 ) , the u.s. appears crucially to be weakening . without the backing of china and india , american unilateralism can no longer succeed ; but that support is granted only a half heartedly – if at all . moreover , the new superpowers with their own national interests – namely , china and india – have arrived at the international scene . a success for america ’s foreign policy in the region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able to contribute substantial aid .
skeptics maintain that competition and technology wreak havoc with societies ’ harmony ; that they generate inequality and eviscerate middle class . but this is no longer the story of the us . true , it gives formerly the chance of the energetic people formerly on the sidelines . creative destruction ( bolstered by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . true , the new economy is hard for those sitting on its back side and living at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers .
dartmouth researchers discovered that of an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the americas , the test has not helped a 120,000-134,000 afflicted women . indeed , even a mammogram ( nearly $ 40 million annually in american countries ) that detects a cancer drug does not necessarily save one ’s life . chest x-rays for lung cancer , as well as pap tests for cervical cancer , have received similar , if less definitive , criticism . the next step in reevaluation of cancer screening last year took place , when researchers at the dartmouth institute for public health announced that the costs of screening for breast cancer have often been minimized , and that the benefits are vastly exaggerated . dartmouth researchers have found that of an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the americas , the test has not helped a 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women .
this matters , because rising populations may be an even bigger problem than previously thought . a new study argues that there is now an additional 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , and an extra 80 % chance of reaching the world ’s 9.6-12.3 trillion people by 2100 . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow that engine of change : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . sub-saharan africa , persistently the world ’s poorest region , will be the primary engine of demography . providing contraception for an estimated 215 million women worldwide , a huge fraction of which in africa that will seek to avoid a pregnancy , would cost about $ 3.6 trillion annually .
this is a struggle for power rather than an economic fairness or a better quality of life . in contrast to the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement does not drive the current conflict . likewise , state-owned enterprises should be free to offer , but they should get no favors at all . the fundamental problem in iraq today is not the jobs they need . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal .
this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , yet mccain does not seem to recognize this . on russia since his invasion of georgia , obama , and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of the us congress to visit georgian post-war victory after invading ) , he emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy , and maintaining its independence in the face of continued russian military strikes against it . moreover , even after outrage in georgia , there are questions about a common interest – like energy , climate change , and iran – on which both western and kremlin allies must work together . mccain wants to sanction russia through such actions by such actions as trump and the g8 . this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , yet mccain does not seem to recognize it .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime plunged the country into a state of chaos and decimated central-government authority . the south remains lawless , whereas the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to an under-consolidated government in tripoli . south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on the trajectories of independence , dragging yemen toward yet another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification . meanwhile , in yemen , an opportunity for an adequate central institution is slipping away as the country confronts a few seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and bankrupt economy . the south remains lawless , whereas the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to an ill-consolidated government in tripoli .
london – in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and spur economic growth . but that consensus turned out to be short-lived , and soon the public sector , ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the root cause of the crisis , and thus need to be reversed . in europe , especially in europe , governments were lambasted for their heavy debt levels , despite private debt , rather than public borrowing , resulting in the collapse of the financial crisis . this proved to be the grave error , but it was the first time that the financial crisis needed to be reversed . many were instructed to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies .
in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead , the us is undertaking far-reaching reforms in that direction . that means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and disabilities , and empowering citizens through education and participation . likewise , the goal for the socialist international community is a world governed not by free markets , but by free people . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to make decisions and the knowledge they need to make well choices . in pasok , the greek socialist party ( spd ) , which i lead , is undertaking far-reaching reforms in that direction .
unlike in europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage over manufacturing in general and petrochemicals in particular . moreover , quantitative easing has boosted asset values , especially in the us . in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . both banking and the household sector have made some progress on deleveraging .
nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the humiliating prospect that they felt unable to resist foreign predation . nothing prompted a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the humiliating prospect that they felt unable to resist foreign predation . even as the chinese felt incensed by us foreign interference and domination , many , too , came to admire america for its own democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to help . yet , thanks to mbs ’s ba’70s speech , when i first traveled to china during the cultural revolution , hardly the public ’s surface was emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its run dogs . ” that divided attitude meant that china tended to react in ways that had become impassioned and unpredictable , particularly as its pride is piqued .
third , we are faced with steeply rising fossil-fuel prices , because the developing world ’s growth drives up demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas are depleted . even the much-vaunted shale-gas revolution is fueling much of the hype – similar to the gilets jaunes and the stock bubble of the past . in fact , shale-gas wells deplete far more quickly than the conventional field does . what is certain is that we may look more fossil fuels , but at far higher costs and at far greater environmental risk from industrial spills , wastes , leaks of resources , leaks , and other damage . and they are ecologically dirty to boot .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is slightly more than a month away , but already the campaign appears to have been with us indefinitely , rolling implacimplacably forward , but with little evidence of either genuine agitation or even substantial movement at the polls . support for the two major opposition parties , labour ’s labour party and the ruling conservative party , appears stuck in the low to-mid 30s . conservatives are hoping that the government ’s ’s record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to break out of their favor late in the campaign . meanwhile , labour appears to be hoping for a who-knows-what to turn the tide , while keeping its collective fingers crossed that they will not eviscerate in scotland , where the scotland national party is threatening to sweep the governing council . perhaps they are correct ; they deserve .
a second insight from the psychological research summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . recent laboratory research finds that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for the many decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously effective . for example , former us president george w. bush might decide to invade iraq and overthrow saddam hussein for a number of reasons : its strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even competition from its father . most did not involve the weapons of mass destruction , but the most part of them were not involved in weapons of mass destruction . for example , former american president george w. bush may have opted to invade iraq and overthrow saddam hussein for many reasons : the strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even competition from his father .
fiscal restraint as reflected in low levels of government consumption relative to income growth is also important . protecting property rights , civil and political liberties , protection from random violence is among the other major factors to promote economic growth . but this makes implementing open trade policies all the more crucial , because they are the best tools available to compensate for the miscard that nature at times deal with each other . geographic location also matters because such matters as distance from markets , bad climates , and poor soil impedes the economic growth of developing countries . other factors besides trade policy also matter .
in between , i consume a diverse spectrum of food and pharmaceuticals , including my daily 81 mg doses of aspirin . durham , north carolina – my day , starts with a coffee world cup and an end to hot chocolate . yet the biodiversity upon which all of us depend is under threat as human activity devastates as well as other plant-rich habitats . brightly color orchid enlivens of my study , and , through my window , i catch a glimpse of my green garden . in short , my life – like all ’s – is enabled , enriched , and extended through a wide variety of plants and derivatives .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a potential settlement freeze is just the latest round in a cycle repeating so many times over the last 40 years that it will seem mundane if that is less dangerous . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke , while that is what is happening . israeli settlers and their supporters then gather an even greater amount of energy to expand onto more palestinian soil , build more exclusive jewish settlements , and kill more arab homes before what is called the “ “ “ “ “ freeze ” ” freeze comes into effect . in the end , world pressure both the subsides and the freezing will fail to materialize . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke .
the term “ stable ” prices ” ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods costs the next ten years , 50 , or even a hundred years from now . by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a decade or so , the same items that $ 100 can buy today will cost an extra $ 122 year by the end of the decade . so how is it that policymakers have managed to replace the latter ? after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 . san francisco – a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate of maintaining “ steady pricing ” – as enunciated in the us federal reserve act and the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation .
many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest migrant group ; it also results in a brain drain from the countries in need of highly skilled workers . yet , once again , one has to look at the trade-off with the trade-off . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining traction across europe , one must ask whether newcomers desperate for a job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) or by not being admitted at all . skills-biased immigration is giving rise to a similar dilemma . as liberal myself , i share those values , but recognize that insisting on them as a policy matter ultimately undermines migrants ’ interests .
instead , the reforms were decreed at very high levels above , with no grassroots support – and thus with no lasting durability . as a result , russia is now confronting a situation in which president-elect putin is the sole political issue . we need to recognize this and understand that it emerges not only when a public is apathetic or fearful , but also at a time when there is no obvious , stable , advanced guard , such as the powerful political parties that elect the leaders and controls them . such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . all of us have been direct appeals to the streets , and the masses rather than the encouragement of genuine socioeconomic consensus .
but , while the eurozone ’s youth unemployment rate has been rising steadily since 2009 , its gdp has remained the same ( though both well above pre-2008 levels ) . likewise , greece ’s gdp is 49.3 % , but its ratio is only about 13 % . during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare the unfavorably with the current average of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , france , and germany . likewise , greece ’s gdp is 49.3 % , but its ratio is only about 13 % . to be sure , the youth-unemployment ratio of 13 % , or 19 % , is not grounds for complacency .
but there is a third possibility : global demand for america ’s reserve assets may subside . the reserve status of the sdr is the long-held imf aspires , even though the notion has never gained much traction . that connection could be direct when the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or an indirect one if the international monetary fund ’s ’s unit of account , the special drawing rights will become the favored reserve managers ’ asset , because the renminbi is now in the sdr basket ’s basket of currencies . in this scenario , supplying the reserve asset would align the world ’s fast-growing regions . alternatively , china might eventually become a new reserve supplier .
with america ’s economy already operating at close to full capacity ( with unemployment down to less than 5 % ) , higher us imports – and a stronger american dollar – will be necessary to meet that demand . all of this will be good news for the eurozone , for which the us remains an international export-oriented market . but it is the peripheral countries that are likely to benefit the most . trump has committed to implementing sweeping tax cuts , including by cutting the corporate tax rate from 35 % to about 15 % . add to that plans for subsidizing infrastructure investment and increasing us military spending , and america ’s seems likely to face rapidly rising fiscal deficits and massive short-term increases in demand .
princeton – for the past century , economic-policy discourse has been locked into orbit around the respective roles and virtues of both the nation and its markets . the same issue is dividing american politics in the lead-up to the november us presidential and congressional elections . this old debate stands at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its own debt crisis . does markets take over , in the sense that it sets limits on governments ’ capacity to borrow ? princeton – over the past century , economic-policy debate has been locked into orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and its markets .
this means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own self-fulfilling prophecy . british negotiators then react to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory rationale by attempting to make the process as painful as that may be for the rest of the eu . the other doom loop applies to the uk ’s ’s domestic political economy . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already overwhelmingly believes that the uk would be better off on its own terms , and that brexit hurts europeans far more than hurting britons . britain can not simply begin to take a beating from europeans on its own play by reviving its automobile industry , or by turning its own backbone into rival french and italian manufacturers .
otherwise , a domestic-demand shortfall would reassert itself once the stimulus ended . in hindsight , fiscal stimulus may help the tide of the economy over while the structural adjustment and expansion of the tradable sector are proceeding . but , by itself , stimulus is not the answer ; it is precisely that . the excess domestic demand underpinning that evolution is now gone , permanently . when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic spending can rebound , but the saving rate will not and should not return to the zero bound .
the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran underlines not only mr. putin ’s glorious pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . so america ’s objective of regime change in baghdad does not look too badly , though it may not be publicly supportive . for president putin , he makes sense to remain on the sidelines over iraq , at least for the moment , to be repaid later in exchange for his helpful silence in the form of american influence over america ’s successor iraqi regime concerning repayment to the country ’s russian debts . the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran underlines not only mr. putin ’s illustrious pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . this contrast also echoes a crucial distinction between iran , the historical nation-state , and the artificial creation that is iraq .
regardless of how much milosevic aggravated the tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians became genuinely popular among serbs . indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities mirrored the nationalistic consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . so far , president kostunica ’s refusal even to discuss the imposition of internationally indicted war criminals on the tribunal is no hopeful women here . kosovo ’s skepticism toward serbia ’s democratic credentials derives , first and foremost , from knowing that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not founded by a single man . most kosovars will find talks with serbia over improved relations difficult unless serbia receives some sort of de-nazification process .
in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror , and turn over megrahi – like yet another suspect , lamin faisal , who was later acquitted – to confront the scottish tribunal at cambridge camp zeist in holland . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace by western leaders ( as well as a deluge of investment ) , relations have remained tainted with mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding . moreover , libya has formally upheld its responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 trillion to its victims ’ families , abandoning its weapons of weapons for weapons of weapons of mass destruction ( bds ) program . yet there has never been any conclusive evidence that megrahi has been engaging in lockerbie bombing . indeed , most experts continue to believe that they have been convicted of using fraudulent evidence , and that the cia bribed witnesses .
this experience has motivated it to establish its dangote academy , the center for talent development , which aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . without them , the continent has more to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social dysfunction , and , eventually , conflict and chaos . with the right education , skills , and job opportunities , this vast labor force could deliver rapid , sustainable economic growth across the region as a whole . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens , compared to either india or chile . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and boosting prosperity .
for a variety of reasons , the violence against women in afghanistan persists . in the first place , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition , which presumes that women ’s inferiority . as a result , women are deprived of their basic human rights and liberties . the husband of another young woman , aisha , cut off her nose and ears when she fled . second , there is a powerful political motivation to deprive women of their rights .
during greece ’s accession to the european union , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy had stabilized . during greece ’s accession to the european union , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy had stabilized . both inflation and the fiscal deficit plummeted quickly ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government imposed an ambitious package of liberalizing reforms . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 , and remained near that level until 2007 . yet entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was designed to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as productivity growth and stronger competitiveness . initially , events played out according to the plan .
other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulations to keep the level playing field . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean-arctic alliance to launch an arctic commitment . the danish shipowners and arctic expeditions hurtigruten are just two players calling for tighter regulation or outright prohibition . the european parliament has already broadly endorsed such a move . momentum toward hfo phase-out in the arctic is building up .
in fact , it ranks among the most charismatic and charming leaders that i met ; another two , former united nations secretary general kofi annan , and former us secretary of state colin powell , also are either africa or the african-american . it has done one thing very well : resolving the cuban missile crisis . in africa , there has not been a huge figure , either since south african president nelson mandela ’s death , who brings together the courage , authority , and magnanimity of graceful abundance . and its gift to motivating people has been unmatched ; indeed , it has outlasted it , with its assassination cementing a mighty legacy . john f. kennedy , for example , has been slightly more than both .
sanibel – the restoration of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united nations has unlocks new prospects for israel ’s economic dominance . it has been engaged in much tentative planning for the 1944 bretton woods conference and has an active delegation there . but restoring cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund is a real possibility . cuba , for its part , has been one of the imf ’s 40 original members . some steps , including removing the american trade embargo , are forbidden by helms-burton act , enacted by the american congress of 1996 .
moreover , they have the credibility that comes with the lack of a desire to be reelected , either because their term in office was limited in advance , or because they are well known to prefer tacit academic life . technocrats may play a useful role as honest brokers , when traditional politicians have become disenfranchised or parties become deadlocked . and many excellent political leaders , such as george washington and dwight eisenhower , have not even been intellectuals among us presidents . indeed , many in my harvard peers would make appalling policymakers , owing to the lack of management , managerial , or other interpersonal skills . it goes without saying that there is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure government officials ’ success .
in the absence of comprehensive efforts to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the decades ahead . today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vital to accommodate an expanding global population – are set to reach nine billion by 2050 without adequate regard for disaster risk . today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vital to accommodate an expanding global population – are set to reach nine billion by 2050 – without adequate regard for disaster risk . in the absence of comprehensive efforts to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades . decision-makers must recognize that there is no such thing as a natural disaster ; there is only a catastrophic impact on the natural hazards of infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which has devastated the coastlines of 11 countries , which account for more than 150,000 deaths , one-quarter of those injured , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – 168 governments agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) – the comprehensive ten-year disaster risk reduction plan .
though that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to enhance nationally determined contributions ” by 2020 , ” ” it offered a platform for a new generation of climate action and nature ’s advocates . yet nature-based solutions have continued to attract relatively little attention , and even less funding . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently on the un climate week in new york city . while that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to enhance nationally determined contributions ” by 2020 , ” ” it offered a platform for a new generation of climate action , as well as nature advocates . fortunately , that may be starting to change , too .
moreover , it will have to take a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it abundantly clear that iran is not spearheading a shia liberation movement . but trump will not make it any easy for rouhani to succeed . to be sure , to be sure , iran continues to advance its advance toward international engagement , thereby safeguarding the nuclear deal that trump is not anxious to defend – rouhani ’s administration will need to work hard on improving relations with neighboring afghanistan . indeed , iranians ’ ’ ’ ’ popular support for rouhani provide the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . just a couple of weeks ago , indeed , the us administration was pressured to admit that rouhani fulfills his side of the nuclear deal .
the hope that turkey is at last shedding its authoritarian vestiges and turning into a stable democracy lies in tatters . but the damage that it does will do will extend far beyond the suffering of the hundreds of thousands of innocent individuals that have been locked up under bogus pretenses . ludicrous cases are going on , with more people being drawn into them . the hope that turkey is at last shedding its authoritarian vestiges and turning into a stable democracy lies in tatters . those cases will eventually crumble under the weight of their collective absurdity .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . more recently , chinese foreign minister , wang yi , has pledged aid to russia . yet russia is not likely to draw on this emergency credit line during the current crisis . likewise , in july , the brics , the creation of a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” – which it insisted , “ forestall short-run balance of payments pressures , ” provides reciprocal support , further strengthening financial stability . yet its ambiguous language has reflected a larger hesitation that will most likely persist until the crisis hits .
from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying necessary labor overhauls and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep american economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would also eat off at potential output . continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainty , conferring debt and deficit negotiations , and impeding economic growth . at the same time , they will attempt to reduce japan ’s dependence on us exports and rethink its dispatch of manufacturing facilities to lower-wage countries . in other countries , the causal direction will run primarily from economics to politics . the economic impact of american politics , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative us congress , politics will mute policy responses rather than fuel greater activism .
paris – the riots that rampaging over greece may have many causes , but one seldom mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction refusing all housing with either the european union or the modern economy . that the traditional left is so inert in the middle of today ’s economic crisis is something more than odd . to varying degrees , that divide is the paralyzing socialist party across europe . in countries holding onto power , like spain , they are now overwhelmingly unpopular . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray , as is germany ’s social democrats , despite being part of the ruling grand coalition .
whatever occurred between former managing director of the international monetary fund and its accusers , the appearance of being arrested and paraded outside the press as a criminal suspect has received much criticism in france . one allegation , made recently by the well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was typical of an american puritanism . the response to the 9/11 events and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with the university of african chamberchambermaid in the new york times hotel has very little in common , with the exception of one thing : once again , a cultural conflict has been invoked in a misleading fashion . the french , it was alleged to have a more liberal understanding of sexual conduct . they are more tolerant of human frailties and have more refined appreciation of an art of seduction .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
nobody ever doubted that ukraine has changed vastly in its twelve years of independence . self-confidence between the governed and prudence among rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true freedom ; and they can never again be diverted in our own homeland . the success of their defiance shows up in the power of the idea espoused by bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for a single ’s fate into one ’s own hands . yet caught in gun barrel sights , no less – or even the courageous – men and women camped up in their hundreds of thousands in snowweek before ukraine ’s parliament – knew with certainty whether these changes wrenched ukrainians out of hand in the grip of fear and apathy . in fact , they have reason to be proud .
while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir have not been averse to lecturing , they have lacked any strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confuses , and often enrages americans . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east does not align himself with that of the obama administration in thrall to its collapsing romania with its moderate islamists , as well as its devoted supporters among jewish americans . his tireless disquisitions about israel ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic environment , its security requirements , its red lines , and jewish history are being offset solely by a conciliatory conversation about reopening negotiations , which immediately rejects palestinians who , like him , are exhibited by weakness . israeli prime ministers are ostensibly to come into two varieties : massively accenture of east european men and grizzled military officers , who speak a good game before acquiescing to the recent american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid .
the british public , for example , did not account for winston churchill as the charismatic leader of 1939 , but one year later , his vision , trust , and communications skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ perception of france ’s downfall and its dunkirk evacuation . in practice , charisma is an obscure synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” his charisma failed to foresee defeat ; the change in adherents ’ supporters ’ lives . followers are more likely to ascribe charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often in the face of personal , organizational , or social crises . and then , in 1945 , after the public ’s focus turned from winning a war to constructing a welfare state , churchill voted from office .
but the picture is far from being clear-cut . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes party commands a strong majority between 62 % and 23 % , with just 15 % turnout among voters undecided . this negotiating success has given the government substantial breathing room , in which to conduct an increasingly effective referendum campaign . at the same time , the government has secured an eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , will allow ireland to retain a permanent seat on the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government significant breathing space , in which the eu has pursued a more effective referendum campaign .
to this end , in a forthcoming paper , which i co-authored with foreign-policy professionals and other economists , we propose that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security issues converge on security grounds for the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . the solution is not to meddle in rules of competition , but rather to give those in charge of security some say in eu decision-making processes . finally , the eu needs to do more to develop its financial toolkit and encourage the international application of europe . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . a decision to reject a merger or authorize an investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in us foreign-policy circles .
whereas the west has lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin for president vladimir putin ’s annexation of crimea , it has not punished israel for its occupation of palestinian lands . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , but the weaker will become its connection to its western strategic rearguard power . for israel , democracy has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel was a natural fit within the western alliance . a just-passed bill clearly targeted by the israeli arabs ’ party in the knesset ( parliament ) ( parliament ) , it would have allowed mladic to turn a blind eye to the state . ngos focused on human rights and un peacemaking scrutinized as foreign agents .
mr. romano prodi , the president of the eu and italy 's former prime minister and italy 's former prime minister , responded to president bush 's most recent declaration by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , " one must know how to look after the whole earth and not just the american-based industry ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in kosovo restricting air bombardment has made this strategy a sum of achievement : nato forces are not a single casualty in the fight against them , but some 300 kosovar , 209 serb forces and three chinese civilians have been killed . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their citizens ' interests , and for what measure should they be worrying about the well-being of the people everywhere ? but the question is not just one for those who aspire to be world leaders . mr. romano prodi , eu president and italy 's former prime minister and italy 's former prime minister , have responded to president bush 's most recent declaration by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , ” one needs to know how to look after the whole earth and not just an american industry ” ” ”
in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s decision to suspend its gas flow to ukraine . on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe is repeatedly catching up with russian president vladimir putin . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical win for russia , with its fragile but enduring truce – and the accompanying legislation that the donetsk and luhansk substantial political autonomy – allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . on both of these fronts , the eu has created the impression that europe is repeatedly outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical win for russia , with its fragile but enduring truce – and the accompanying legislation that the donetsk and luhansk substantial political autonomy enable russia to entrench the conflict near eu border .
thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the largest headache by any developing country ’s finance minister nowadays attempts to hold up its or her country ’s currency from going too far against the us dollar . but has that ever happened to anybody how hard americans have to work to put everyone else on a sound footing ? with the us weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everyone laments america ’s re-endthrift customs practices . the chronic debt-crisis countries from mexico to russia to south korea are all fighting capital inflows from investors looking for an exit as the us dollar collapses . when was the last thing that happened ?
new york – hurricane harvey have left millions of lives and immense property damage estimated to be worth of some $ 150-180 billion . yet , researchers have long predicted that such an increase would spur not just average temperatures , but also weather variation – and , in particular , the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane sandy . to be sure , no single specific climate event can directly address the rise of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . yet , researchers have long predicted that such an increase would spur not just average temperatures , but also weather variation – and , in particular , the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane sandy . it is ironic , of course , that an event such as climate change would have occurred in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers , and where the us economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel resources that drive global warming .
rather than banding together together , every new challenge divided the eu into an ever-smaller group . europe divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis both divided east and the west . the eu was founded on the mechanical notion that interdependence would diminish conflict . by joining europe with the means of production together – first through the european coal and steel community – and later through the common market and europe , the eu hoped to bind european states together so closely , that war between the two would no longer be an option . pro-europeans need to engage with sources of discontent , and rethink the forms used to voice the european ideal .
in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and long last ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . the government and commercial activity practically ground to a halt this spring as democracy activists , alliances with politicians and legislators opposed a third term , battled obasanjo into thwart a proposed bill . unfortunately , this is not necessarily what the president is doing . in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and long last ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms met a solid wall of opposition .
if parfit is correct , there is far less disagreement among apparently conflicting moral theories than what we all think . defenders of each one of these theories are , in parfit ’s vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain ” on different sides . he considers three leading theories of what to do about – one deriving from kant ’s social-contracts , one from hobbes ’ social-contracts , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. t.scanlscanlscanlon , and one of bentham ’s utilitarianism – arguing that kantian and social-contract theories need to be revised in order to be defensible . parfit ’s response to this line of argument leads him to make an argument that is perhaps even bolder than his defending objectivism on the ethics of ethics . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a special form of consequentialism that is the theory in the same wide-ranging family as utilitarianism .
this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding themselves out coffee , both of which are lawful in recent years . rather than csr , we ought to have fewer psr ( personal social responsibility ) . but this does not mean that the firm is the right entity to engage in altruism – even though its different stakeholders apparently can spend some fraction of the income they earn from corporations and other sources in altruistic ways . one can also argue for psr on the grounds that questioning csr becomes a way of “ passing ” the buck ” beyond the buck . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding themselves out coffee – both of which are lawful in recent years .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be viewed as the gravest visit to the region by the united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission of beijing in july 1971 . what clinton did and said during her asian tour marks either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the beginning of a noticeable new phase in that epoch . the renewal of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power in the post-cold war era , and prepared the way for china to open up its economy – a decision that , more than any other country – defined today as the world today . what clinton did and said during her asian tour marks either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the beginning of a noticeable new phase in that epoch . kissinger ’s task , for example , triggered the diplomatic revolution .
this represents a major opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for appropriate components of evolving supply chains . chinese demand is growing not only , but , as incomes rise , its composition shifts toward more sophisticated goods and services . at the same time , rising chinese incomes imply structural shifts for china , because continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value activities . as a result , china has become a game changer : once the west ’s ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western product . moreover , chinese demand continues to grow not only , but as incomes rise , its composition shifts toward increasingly sophisticated goods and services .
but , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental change , as it typically wound up with paying an extra amount . historically , french diplomacy excess-bargains excels at grand bargains . yet , beneath merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental change , because it typically wound up paying an extra amount . macron ’s own rhetoric suggests that he wants to tackle these symptoms . for his part , macron has been running hyper-active diplomacy , exposes the symptoms that – whether brexit or putinism – are hampering europe ’s normalization , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states .
at a time when strong , coordinated action is necessary to stave off the european union ’s financial meltdown , the popular support that drove european integration over the past six decades is waning . at a time when strong , coordinated action is necessary to stave off the european union ’s financial meltdown , the popular support that drove european integration over the past six decades is waning . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected for an independent economic policy to work . dublin – europe ’s needs , and the europeans ’ aspirations are at odds . europe , for its part , is in the odds .
for one thing , it remains far too early to judge the merits of that argument . the skeptics do have the point , but they are going too far . a full assessment of the iraq war , and of its effects on the middle east , will take ten years or more for a decade . in the past six months , national elections in lebanon , as well as local elections in saudi arabia , have occurred . a full assessment of the iraq war , and its effects on the middle east , will take ten years or more .
as thomas mann once wrote , “ liberty is more complicated than power . ” it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and total dependency on a state that embodies a sort of unshades of destiny . freedom changes both the frame and the substance of choices , as well as the individual and collective responsibilities . it changes the contrast between the initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and total dependency on a state that embodies a sort of unshakable fate . in 1989 , the peoples of the region brought with them , in their own “ go back ” to europe , their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries and memory ; and their ancient and new aspirations .
cambridge – big tax reform has been high on the agenda for the united states in 2017 . now , with the republican majority in both the senate and a republican president in the white house and a republican president in the white house , those plans may provide the foundation for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is particularly significant . the republican-controlled house of representatives have been preparing for this for years , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal incomes are taxed . i believe that it will have an extremely favorable effect on business investment , raise productivity , and overall economic growth .
palme 's main speech referred to " détente , " trust , " and " friendship , " but never " liberty . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , neither the berlin wall nor the berlin wall . palme 's main speech referred to " détente , " trust , " and " friendship , " but never " liberty . this " alliance between the two parties resulted in severe distortions to fundamental western values . instead , palme praised eastern germany 's leader , erich honecker , underscoring shared goals and the reciprocal struggle for peace and development .
vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , the filipinos , the burmese , indians , and malays all wanted their liberty , too . these aspirations were often voiced in the united nations , established in 1945 . a different sort of revolution took hold in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no appetite for rule once more by the western powers that were so ignominiously defeated by japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , the burmese , indians , and malays wanted their individual liberty , too . for a short time , many prominent people – albert einstein – believed that only the global government would secure global peace .
guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and allowed the banks to take even more leveraging , it is no surprise that the us administration has veered from one policy to another , every strategy promoted with absolute conviction until minutes before abandoning it another . but the financial crisis is just one of only a few crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem was made worse by the sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the us population . even if trust really were all that mattered , the economy as a whole would shrink . moreover , what little action was taken was to shoring up the financial system . those who would be spending do n’t have the money .
the policy dilemmas stemming from rising inequality , greater volatility , and reduced room to govern the real economy will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . amid the foreign-capital bonanza of the stagnant level of private investment in the tradable sector , the stagnant level of private investment in the tradable sector is a particularly potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . the deeper problem lies in the excessive financialization of the global economy that has emerged since the 1990 ’s . officials are faced with a simple choice : maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows or stuck ready to invest a substantial share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves . this is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have only themselves to blame recklessly for having rushed into this wildride .
even a relatively minor amount of material like cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – could lead to severe harm if combined with conventional explosive devices in the so-called “ dirty bomb ” ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . at the agenda summit , the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect their nuclear material when it is used or held up , rather than just when it is carried out internationally , as is now the case . the foreign and energy ministries will have an opportunity to reinforce the global nuclear-security framework at a time when they gather at the international conference on nuclear security : a enhancing global effort in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event to be open to all countries . at the agenda summit should be ratification of improvements to the critical nuclear security tool – theconvention of the physical protection of nuclear material .
on the political front , however , both countries were not evenly aligned . this time around , the initiative came from singh , who had invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf rajapaksa , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to watch the two countries are playing the semifinal in the cricket world cup . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the games ; but , ultimately , the process , rather than the protocol will determine how the bilateral relationship moves forward . the match played out on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . of the troika , which currently governs pakistan – the us president , the prime minister , and the army ’s chief of staff – it is prime minister who carries the least amount of authority .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control all locally discovered viruses should be safeguarded through similar mechanisms that the un food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and vaccines against all the separate strains of the virus that cause aids . yet it is a dangerous folly to extend this policy to viruses . under the fao ’s seed accord , a nation can register the plants , sharing its seeds , and derive gains from its resulting goods . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which at times enable multinational corporations and wealthy governments to extract outrageous profits from indigenous agriculture . indeed , if the notion of “ viral sovereignty ” was applied to hiv just 25 years ago , we would not have central repositories for hundreds of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these enable researchers to test drugs and vaccines against all of the separate strains of the virus that cause aids .
from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of just 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . that , in turn , requires increased investment in innovation and human capital . the new administration ’s greatest challenge will be to enact reforms , which enable italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect .
policy wonks tend to think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based guidance . but the technical ability to do so is not the sole or even the headline issue . informed citizens reasonably worry that a wonk in the question may be in thrall to some particular ideology or methodology ; that advice can be politically motivated ; or that advisers can tailor their counsel to the careers of careers ( how to get that plum work on wall street after leaving the government , for example ) . conflicting motivations are arguably a more important reason for citizens to become more mistrust of experts . there is a misconception on the job , too .
while exports are booming , the unemployment rate remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics is picking up , and may even bring forth right-wing populists , whom democratic germany has so far been largely spared . whichever party combination comes out at the very top -- and helmut kohl 's coalition still needs to be considered the narrow favorite -- it will enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major initiative on the unlikely support of its political opponents . as a result , germany appears destined to become stuck in the doldrums for some time to come . the price for inaction is substantial .
to be sure , europe occupies the moral high ground on which america mostly resides , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . europe ’s ’s standing as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with close to 40 % of all international commerce and the increasing importance of europe – a crisis notwithstanding – as a reserve currency mean that the eu , just like the u.s. , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . yet there is little indication that governments seize this opportunity . the difference is that america behaves decisively , and the eu does not . european leadership on climate change and on development aid might , if handled well , constitute the foundation for a new moral authority .
and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . yet netanyahu would barely be recognizable to the ben-gurion , who strived to bring together the country ’s jewish character with democracy . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . as liu p. hartley wrote in a go-between opening : “ the past is a foreign country : they are doing things very differently there . ” madrid – which has secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in france ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu , is well on track to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father because his country ’s longest-serving leader .
such arguments were deployed successfully during 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , as well as in ireland during the lisbon treaty referendum . in many eu member states , the ecj ’s ’s ’s decisions generated a backlash , particularly on the left , with trade union and a social movement targeting the court ’s supposed fervor in siding with business over workers ’ interests . it accused luxembourg ’s judges of grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of member states , urging the constitutional court to invalidate a few controversial ecj rulings . in september 2008 , for example , the former presidency of rome published a polemic entitled “ stop the ecj ! ” in many eu member states , the ecj ’s decisions generated a backlash , particularly on the left , with trade union and social movements targeting the court ’s supposed fervor in siding with business over workers ’ interests .
on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example . here , several proposals have already been put forward , including universal basic income , currently piloted in finland , and some subnational jurisdictions , such as ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and the various kinds of portable social-welfare accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . furthermore , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health care making it more portable and tailored to evolving work arrangements , including an expanding “ gig ” gig ” economy . that means shifting the focus of backward-looking labor-market policies , seeking to protect workers in existing work opportunities , into future-oriented measures , such as innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . simultaneously , countries need to make it easier for workers to switch occupations through labor-market reforms and social-security nets .
in the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks , the us has seen a good deal of sympathy and understandings worldwide for america through a military response against the taliban . the us , too , is failing to take advantage of soft power . according to caslen , “ us forces ” in the us pentagon are behind us adversaries in using communications – either to recruit or to train – the us . according to caslen , in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks , the us has been behind us adversaries in using communications – either to recruit or train – ” ” in the wake of america ’s military response to the taliban . as us secretary of defense robert caslen , the pentagon ’s ’s ’s ’s deputy director for the terrorism war , put it , “ the us is not killing them more quickly than it is being created . ”
air , soil , and water pollution have been on the rise , producing hundreds of thousands of fatalities each year . yet this is not what has been happening so far , so much of it has been just what has been done now . the key to a clean-energy future is clean technology , whose costs have been falling steadily and will continue to do just that . our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy use , and a cleaner environment . at times , these technologies are expected to pay for themselves , and will be adopted .
as a result , students in places that have yet to be established , or with too few qualified teachers available , can still receive an education . likewise , skilled teachers now can deliver on an interactive e-sounding basis to a large number of classrooms , despite the fact that they are hundreds of miles off . some providers , for example , are developing teaching models in which students can track teacher-created off-class videos , so that a precious teacher-studenter-student face time can concentrate on interacting rather than lecturing . likewise , the private sector is bringing innovation into the classroom as a whole . as a result , students in places that have yet to be established , or have far too few qualified teachers , can still receive an education .
the chinese government has been investing heavily in state-owned companies in recent years , and privately-owned “ national ” champions , ” mainly to ensure that china ’s gains from market power , while leadership controls as much spoils as they can . in order to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the us government often favors them at the expense of foreign competitors . in no mood to play the scapegoat , china will use surging national pride to bolster its standing and strengthen its hand in negotiating negotiations . the obama administration has already stepped up against chinese exports of rudd and steel pipes ; but this year , ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . when the us congress takes up the debate over climate change , for example , and some us lawmakers are calling on the us cap-and-trade system to do so , others will demand that america should accept binding commitments to cap emissions while denying china .
but , faced with the possibility that low inflation today may be due to persistent supply shocks , they , too , are reluctant to ease ever more now . that central bank ’s patience risk de-anchoring of inflation expectations is downward . so , though central banks are hardly prepared to surrender to their formal 2 % inflation target , they are prepared to prolong the timeline for achieving it , as they have done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation can remain low for longer . otherwise , they would have to sustain much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing ( qe ) and negative policy rates , an approach that most central banks ( with the potential exception of the bank of japan ) are uncomfortable . but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation can stem from persistent supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease ever more now .
a contest over global leadership might serve that purpose just as well . what would persuade chinese leaders that they need to rapidly reinforce an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-led economic rise ? one such catalyst may be the financial crisis stemming from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a global pact would need to become urgent , rather than attractive , opportunities . to reach an agreement on similar scale and influence , world leaders – particularly in america and china – would have to take place under similarly high pressure .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of delaying tactics in brussels and french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . at a time of rising unemployment , with france mired in fear of its future , the french need for a reassuring father , or an mother figure , rather than an jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics and france ’s proud tradition that any citizen has the right to equal treatment under the rule of law . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for the sake of short-term political gain , he will dishonor first and then defeat . for , though a large majority of the french are perhaps inclined toward sympathy with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that they will be re-elected re-election in 2012 . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as his president , who rejects ; that is his essence .
at the same time , the international community needs to encourage the integration of refugees in the major host countries , such as turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , such countries are receiving only a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 required annually to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and work training during the first several years of displacement . millions are ending in protracted displacement , with spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain when they can return home . in 2016 , the developed world should agree to accept the combined goal of attaining one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or by issuing humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . as it stands , such countries are receiving only a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee needed annually to provide adequate housing , food , water , and schooling , and job training during the early years of displacement .
indeed , in the world of two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet , in both countries , some social inequalities have been on the decline in recent decades . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually receding . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . in india , some historically disadvantaged groups ( especially among lower-ranking castes ) are now politically assertive .
when the crisis hit , output costs in greece were roughly 30 % higher than in germany , which is why greece has exported very little and imports very little . manufacturing costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany . but unemployment continues to rise in heavily indebted southern countries , and output continues to lag far behind germany and other northern european countries . there is a huge gap between unit labor costs – real ( inflation-adjusted ) wages in germany and the heavily indebted southern states . the prime reason for the lag is not simply low demand or large debts .
new york – russian president vladimir putin ’s recent telephone call to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s current crisis , is actually a peace offensive that is offensive to peace . yet , as ukrainians are working to rebuild our country following viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , we are faced with a new threat , in the form of a us-supported “ peace ” offensive that seeks to undermine western resolve . next month , ukraine will freely elect a new president , the best rebuke of russia ’s propaganda of our supposed failure to uphold democracy . most prominent , despite russia ’s western red army , has been embarking on an election campaign . putin ’s ’s gambit comes akin to the infamous yalta conference of 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in the partition of europe that enslaved half of the continent for nearly a half-century .
iraqi scud cruise missiles bombarded tel aviv , and one came close to hitting dimona . yet the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from the past . in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders , downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner into the reactor , killing 108 people . and , while israel ’s ’s arrow of ballistic missile defense – which is now surrounding dimona – may prove superior to the patriot system that has failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present an even more competent challenge than saddam ’s projectiles . in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner , killing 108 people .
now , they need to recognize that the fed may no longer be in a position to do so . with the oil , food , and other commodities firm and the renminbi appreciating slightly , the fed , too , must worry about inflation . with the us oil , food , and other commodities firm and the renminbi appreciating somewhat more rapidly , the fed , too , must worry about inflation . if interest rates were already lowered beyond a tipping point , the us dollar would come under renewed strain , and long-term bond yields would actually go up in yield . moreover , the fed ’s ability to stimulate the us economy has been constrained by its unwillingness to accumulate additional dollar reserves .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in an newsweek issue , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women ’s growing potential . ” but , on the planet ’s worst , forcing terrified , uneducated women to stay home is more socially acceptable than confronting the reality that this means choosing to drag down incomes for all . in fact , studies show that helping women access to trade and growing firms helps to generate jobs and boost incomes . and , when it does marry and has children of its own citizens , it will benefit from two highly educated , underemployed parents , which implies twice as many times as much literate talk in homs , twice connections , and double encouragement to succeed . in fact , educated , pushy mothers are making all the difference .
by the 1990 ’s , the british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that has been more successful and more expansionary than that of the eu . as a result , britain lost much of its capacity to make the eu an effective contribution to european reform . america has been the “ “ other ” woman to underprivileged britain ’s allegiance to the eu as an attractive permanent partner . indeed , the last time britain has a strong european voice in the past was more than two decades ago . one of the factors driving the uk ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s sense of uneasiness in its relationship with an increasingly bureaucratized european relationship is its belief that its values and institutions are closer to those american or other english-speaking former colonies .
broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best arms to confront those who would wreck the european project . but the battle between pro– and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake , and thus what should be the focus of the electoral debate : how europe can generate durable economic growth . that question , rather than endless defensive against euroskepticism , should be a key item on deliberation for the parties that have been pushing for an improved europe for all . the upcoming elections render the public a verdict on the success or failure of the austerity policies pursued by the eu . but it will also determine whether europe will remain the world ’s leading economic powerhouse , maintain its social model , and safeguard its frameworks for rights and liberties in a world that will not wait for europeans to resolve their differences .
everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( although it was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 was viewed as a systemic risk from the washington post , but not from most european capitals . and , before july 1998 , it was thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( although it was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? then there is the notion of a systemic risk that not only in the eye of the beholder but may be impossible to predict .
concern about such divergences has also now reached a task force spearheaded by european president herman van rompuy , to devise fundamental reform to eu rules on economic policy coordination . the eurozone ’s southern european members must reduce their wage cost to claw back the competitiveness it has lost since adopting the common currency . but this approach , in turn , risks leading in the wrong direction . competitiveness , which tends to be measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept . a key suggestion by the task force ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then force member countries to take advantage of remedial action ” should the eu find large divergences .
today , with more people waking up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global opposition movement is emerging in order to advocate for democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait out and hope that trump is turning into a lame duck by damning revelations about his administration . the opposition could , for its part , adopt three tactics . during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans went to spain to join the struggle against fascism as a component of abraham lincoln ’s brigade . better still , trump could be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment of the american constitution if enough members view him as incapable of executing the responsibilities of the us presidency .
in the short run , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices in terms of higher fuel prices . and no single measure would have done more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp rise in gasoline taxes in a country that consumes more of it than any other country : the u.s. . none of this would have happened at once before . had americans been forced to pay more for gasoline , they would have used less of it . and no single measure would have done more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp rise in gasoline taxes in a country that consumes more of it than any other country : the u.s. .
consider groupon : its focus is its groups ’ power , but its actual business is its old standby marketing and its coupons . indeed , groupon is doing for e-mail marketing what other internet firms do for yellow pages or categorized advertisements : encouraging merchants to make use of cutting-edge technologies to reach their buyers . the model clearly makes sense for many shopkeepers : groupon now holds more than 50 million subscribers , and aims to reach $ 150 million by year-end date . but groupon is extending that model to a far broader audience – not so much to coupon its users – but rather to shopkeepers that offer a coupons . new york city , which means all of its cutting edge , but its actual business comes at times of conflict .
how to stem the decline in the equilibrium rate thus became a lively debate . in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , combined with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , increased the supply of savings worldwide even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in the advanced economies had depressed investment demand . the prevailing view is that a downward trend largely reflected in falling equilibrium or “ natural ” interest rates , fueled by shifts in saving and investment fundamentals . this perceived shortfall in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , because it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . conspicuously absent from the debate , however , is the role of financial factors in explaining the trend drop in the real rate .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasizes in his book new job geography , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of the global population in the most affluent american metropolitan areas , but there are four times less numerous in worse-off areas . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his coauthors investigated the political consequences . they find that american districts , where the economy was hit hard by chinese exports , have responded by substituting moderate representatives with more radical politicians – either from the left or the far right . in fact , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide . as a result , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide .
the un high court of inquiry gathered information identifying some of those responsible for the crimes it investigated , but that did not make it publicly available . when they fail to respond , or when their responses are not persuasive , their biases , and crimes that are attributed to them , should be made public . the un inquiry commission gathered information identifying some of those responsible for the crimes it investigated , but it did not make it public . the names of those responsible should be made public , either by the commission or by yet another body created by the un human rights council . those to be named should be told , and given the chance to refute findings .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than elsewhere in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming especially weak and divided , the extremes of the extreme right are creying in opinion polls . already , le pen seems to be reverting to form . but , if the right leaders are at the helm , the january 7 attacks could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and a political revival . these ingredients could constitute a recipe for catastrophe . “ national unity ” is pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained , after having not been invited to a rally day after the attacks .
that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across the economy ’s tradable - and non-tradable sectors . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change , with a shift in output toward higher-value-added components of global supply chains . here , innovation , and the terms that support it – including competition and free entry , and market exit – play an important role . the non-tradable side , meanwhile , should grow , too . if policymakers select a big-state-dominated model protected from domestic and external competition , the goals of innovation are unlikely to be fulfilled , adversely affecting future growth .
this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has turned into a potemkin democracy . then there are the cases at which a leader ’s election is treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent birth of a dictatorship . to be sure , elections alone do not make democracy a democracy any chance . consider those cases when elections empower the majority of ethnic or religious groups that then rides roughshod over minorities – an outcome that has been seen all too often in the balkans – for example . another election , neither free nor fair , gives putin another term in office this year .
what they do share is that their “ success ” has been driven largely by the feeling that powerful external threats have made an alternative , no deal , at all , far worse . beyond timing , they have little in common . in greece , negotiations have been propelled by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with his dangerous revisionist ambitions or by acting as a conduit for europe -bound migrants . but iranians are nothing like the nazis , and there is no country like the soviet union , posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon in 1972 . equally problematic has been the tendency to match both sets of negotiations .
when drugs are forbidden , but some athletes are using them anyway when playing fields tilts in favor of a cheater . integrity seems old-fashioned thinking , but it is at the heart of who we are , and the way we live . banning drugs in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and penalize those who cheat . for athletes seeking to compete in a clean way , the threat that they may be beaten by a competitor that is not growing faster , stronger , or more dedicated , but who takes the drug to get an edge , is profoundly personal . what if that advantage comes about using a lifetime enhancing drugs ?
for starters , the crisis countries have ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels . more generally , countries have felt pressured by the imf and america ’s treasury to remove capital-flow restrictions , which magnified risk , and made the maintenance of pegged exchange rates all the more problematic . external powers , meanwhile , have compounded the problem , too . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing its economies to short-run inflows of hot money . this sketch out the crisis underscores how much has changed in the subsequent 20 years .
and , even then , the renminbi probably will share the international stage with the us dollar , rather than replace it . it is not to replace the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have severe economic problems of their own making . beyond this , the us dollar is not going any further . the renminbi is approaching , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai will become a world-class international financial center . the one thing likely to precipitate the us dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
if american voters endorse those policies , america may be forced to live with the world ’s hostility and tolerate a vicious cycle of escalating violence . the us is deeply concerned with the direction in which the bush administration is taking up the united states and the world . in this effort , i committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together ” to “ america coming together , ” ( act ) the paucity of “ a paucity of the operation , ” as well as the $ 2.5 million 'moveon.org voter fund , a popular internet advocacy group that is airing advertisements to highlight the administration ’s misdeeds . i , together with the number of other wealthy americans , are contributing millions of dollars to pastudent-led organizations that are engaged in the 2004 us presidential election . i , together with a number of other wealthy americans , are contributing millions of dollars to pastudent-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 us presidential election .
while russia did not overran america , 20 % of the respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . there is little reason to think that russia , which was never particularly averse to long-term peace-building , will mediate , much less underwrite , durable peace agreements . yet the middle east – a manifold conflict stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has both the time and , again , exhausted foreign actors ’ commitment . after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban have failed – and almost 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation , the kremlin took a step in to mediate debates between the taliban and the representatives of fellow afghan groups . yet russia is likely to disappoint its supporters in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker .
moreover , because of complicated rules that govern the level of welfare benefits , the older workers who pay for that payroll taxes are likely to receive no extra benefit . but experience shows that a decision to retire , or to work fewer hours , is being influenced by the compensation that this group receives . the payroll tax that workers pay is 6.65 % ( on average , employers pay the same rate ) and goes hand in hand with a personal income tax . and that amount partly reflects the fact that employed people collecting social security and medicare is subject to a payroll tax that finances them . for many older workers , choices are not whether they work .
up to now , the eu has centered on how to restrict the visa rights that oblast the eu ’s citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states in order to visit the rest of russia . if that fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu needs to forge closer cooperation with russia ’s leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave . at the same time , eu enlargement will boost both trade and economic growth , and these may provide real incentives to make kaliningrad an increasingly attractive baltic and trade partner , rather than just the fear source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu engage in a supposedly lax visa regime . eu enlargement will bring enormous impetus to europe ’s whole , particularly the baltic region , from which so many new eu members will emerge .
but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy odds , the world should step in to invest in technology . lev artsimovich , tokamak ’s inventor , said that “ fusion will be ready when societies need it . ” without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained , creating a grave problem for developed and developing countries alike . one hopes that it is right to do so . one hopes that it is true that it is right to do so .
would the imf not insisted on an even tougher program , with fewer financing , to any outside of the eurozone ? the obvious explanation for the imf ’s exceptional gamble is that the managing director who makes the decision to support greece so terribly hailed in the eurozone , and at a time when barely disguising his ambitions to run for the french presidency – that is , before his arrest in new york city on trumped-up charges . that mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s governing directorship , and yet christine lagarde , the french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation . moreover , europeans , too , dominate the fund ’s direction . it is the disreassuring conflict of the interest that borrowers dominate an international institution that lends vast sums .
so the three problems facing europe in the second half of this year are intimately interconnected . there are very few new faces , or even ideas on the horizon . the eu will need the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer through the treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms . just now , the signs are far from promising , and far from promising . the eu will need the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms .
in many countries , the costs of campaigning are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , no matter how much gender . a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , the interconnected barriers that women face when they won an elected office and conduct successful campaign . overcoming such structural impediments requires a comprehensive strategy to support women ’s candidates . one of the most powerful tools at work is the money they need . such obstacles include the electoral system itself ( women ’s fare better according to proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post schemes based in single-member districts ) ; the lack of access to funding ; a weaker professional network ; and , beyond the responsibilities that make it harder to take on punishing and unforeseeable working conditions .
powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country , either . given imperfect information about the future needs , labor markets are out of reach of an equilibrium . this reflects both the public-investment shortfall and the information gap : investment in job-training in an ever-evolving industrial structure is like shooting at the moving destination . the same issues arise everywhere , with divergences in outcomes that reflect variability in market flexibility and social-policy choices . these adverse trends date back to about 1980 , to the reference point .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of various forms of disinformation in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , dismantling the final frontier separating the transmitter and receiver of information . the legacy of their success , the copyrights of copyright legislation , continues to constrain attempts to render cyberspace the free marketplace of thought . the sharp divide between producers and knowledge consumers began only about 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal protections for their trade in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . yet we have been here before – indeed , for much of human history .
french president françois hollande was reelected with the argument that a high-finance world is its enemy . thus , the delegation following the delegation of the council of ministers , mayors , and assorted financial-center lobbyists filling london ’s best hotels , offering a welcoming boost to high restaurant business . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others ran up glossy presentations on their cities ’ competitive edge over london : lower asset costs , a lower corporate tax rate ( that sounds credible when claimed by the irish accent ) , michelin-red restaurants , and deutsche dealerships , all of the vital services that make up for a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations have raised a nasty smile , or two . that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s current jurisdiction is now one of perhaps ’s principal aims .
but those in iran who claimed that they had gotten nothing from europe are simply wrong . the danger now now is that iran , or its proxies in the middle east , will misread the situation and cross the red line . iran has understandably been frustrated with europe ’s slow progress toward establishing instex , a bartering mechanism intended to permit some european trade despite american sanctions . that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to divest from their disruptive activities in multiple theaters , not least by seizing the british tanker in the strait of hormuz in the strait of hormuz last month ( they , too , noted that the uk is ’s ’s weak link ) . iran ’s rising aggressiveness has already lifted hackles in israel , supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) .
moreover , american accounting standards have been unable to cope with the bookkeeping frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and a byzantine contract valuations . thus , inner and external auditors are often co-opted , too . to be sure , american corporate and securities scandals have exposed the regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement requirements of disclosure , for example , or over-dependence on the auditors ’ peer review and the so-called “ chinese walls ” to hold brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . last but not least , managers , rather than distant shareholders , control access to well-paying appointments , and lucrative consulting jobs . thus , inner and external auditors are often co-opted .
this implies potentially massive economic , environmental , and social losses for both the advanced and developing world . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , pledged the international regime to access and benefit the sharing of ( arabs ) genetic resources . but brokering the arabs regime has proved elusive , and , in the absence of an international agreement , diminishing access , and therefore falling benefit-sharing over the last five , or so years . the countries in asia – indeed , countries throughout the developing world – simply do not export their plentiful and economically irrelevant genetic resources . this would enable researchers and firms to access the developing world , ’s genetic treasure trove in return for the lion ’s share of gains from those that are then developed .
and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . the other group , led by china , will stabilize at below-potential growth rates than recent historical averages , while continuing to grow structurally . the gains from economic growth will be less equitably shared than they have been in recent years , although they will still accrue disproportionately to those already better off . a third group , led by europe , will struggle , because continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries and complicates regional policymaking choices .
and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with the american economy , europeans have struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . once again , european companies have borne the costs of such measures . a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . unlike the 3g and 4g broadband internet , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , as it promises not only to improve the mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of the internet of things and digitalization in the whole world . unless the eu can become part of an international currency to rival the us dollar , europe ’s economies will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality .
but it is impossible to know the extent that those factors have been influenced by american president donald trump ’s policies . blinder and watson suggest that five factors – namely , oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may collectively explain the 56 % - of-gdp growth gap . so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap with the us ? when assessing clinton ’s ’s ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers are making a lot of discovery by blinder and watson , that contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies do not seem to be more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under republican presidents and thus can not explain the performance differential . we know even less about the factors responsible for the other 44 % of the performance gap .
in this time of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade . but , with myanmar included , that may prove too difficult politically , and asean subgrouping may be even more realistic . this was proposed at the end of the bush administration to forge ties with some asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as it did in late 2011 , when it will become obama ’s turn to play a host to all leaders . another possibility is that the us will press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . that could be built up to include the other open southeast asian economies , – malaysia , and thailand – with an eventual goal of achieving an eu-wide agreement that would be an impressive accomplishment if realized in late 2011 , when obama will be ’s turn to play a host to all leaders .
in the united states , for a fifth year in a row , the us congress has yet to pass a full-fledged budget , much less address to the economy ’s growth and employment headwinds . as a result , they are at risk of aggravating potential challenges . the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , much less prepared to confront eventual limits on central-bank effectiveness . in the united states , for a fifth year in a row , the us congress has yet to pass an entirely full-fledged budget , much less address to the economy ’s growth and employment headwinds . this is particularly true of those policymaking entities that are holding far better tools for addressing the advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges .
like high-level executives at publicly traded privately owned firms , policymakers who make bad choices should confront clawbacks , in the form of reduced pensions . to reestablish fairness , government should follow the private sector ’s lead and link politicians ’ pension to their performance . meanwhile , just 15 % of the private-sector workforce – those who presumably rely on government-sponsored education and infrastructure – receives the type of fixed-benefit retirement plans that will cushion ryan into retirement , on the basis of the center for pension rights . like high-level executives at publicly traded private firms , policymakers who have made bad choices should confront clawbacks , in the form of lower pension benefits . pension represents a long-term commitment from the state – and , ultimately , taxpayer – to an individual politician .
with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its own security forces , and on the occupier ’s those , israel , to enforce its will . this was true of zionism , of italy ’s christian risorgimento , and , most recently , catholics in northern ireland . the pa ’s prime minister , salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules through decree , keeping parliament inactive , and baences the opposition . to be sure , throughout history , national liberation movements had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to reach out to the promised soil . abbas ’s ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ presidential term has now expired , and elections are under constant delay .
the case for the khaled el-masri , the german citizen of the lebanese descent , appears to be yet another such mistake . murat kurnaz ’s commander , a hindu admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended the harsh treatment of his prisoners , saying that they are all “ terrorists ” ; they are all “ enemy combatants . ” murat kurnaz , for example , a german-born turkish man has been taking place in guantánamo for four years before it was launched last august . seized by the cia in macedonia , it has been accepted to afghanistan , and has been interrogated for a total of five months before it was launched without charges . yet the cia has made mistakes before .
a new equilibrium will be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role to play in the european parliament and national parliaments . the treaty calls for the new eu foreign minister , even though he formally denies the title , this is what each will call – with the robust administrative infrastructure – on both the european commission and the council . a rotating presidency will be replaced by an elected council president . eu citizens will be enlisted on a legally binding basis , with majority decisions becoming the general norm . a high price must pay for that agreement .
van steenis warns that a pro-swedish experience demonstrates that , without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . monetary usage has plummeted by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is now plummeting by more than 10 % annually in the united kingdom , while barely changing in germany . what is needed is a new hope that the us government can respond to this question . cash is in decline in many countries , even though rates vary markedly from the eu to the eu . perhaps the most striking parts of the “ future ” of finance ” concern how to pay change .
because a “ haircut ” can be imposed only on whatever is left of defaultable private debt , the greater the imf ’s share , the deeper the haircut it needs to restore sustainability . a second reason for avoiding imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country carries serious ramifications for the fund . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed only on whatever is left of defaultable private-sector debt , the greater the imf ’s share , the deeper the haircut it needs to restore sustainability . for the same reasons , imf lending may be a burdensome legacy . for starters , accepting the imf ’s preferred-creditor status in the face of value , the imf would entail substituting its “ non-defaultable ” of ” maturing debt with private bondholders , because the fund uses ’s money primarily to service outstanding bonds .
as the world ’s largest reserve currency issuer notes , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times that of the united states , with its debt/gdp ratio at about 200 % , compared to about 80 % in the united states . how did that happen , and what should policymakers do ? at root , the problem lies in the structural nature of the problem . as a result , china ’s ’s reserves of foreign exchange are relatively plentiful . beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , owing to persistent current-account surpluses – the market and the interbank short-term interest rate are soaring .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait launched innovative research and training programs that focus on these kinds of health challenges , far more needs to be done . the technology and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will prove ineffective unless they are tailored to meeting the real needs of the local people . yet another problem is that the region ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s education and training programs do not stimulate sufficient systemic thinking . worldwide , public-health policies are shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and governance science and humanities . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind in the global norm .
given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed , france ’s next president will be france ’s next president . more telling , of course , will be the party primaries in november . i still believe that juppé is likely to emerge as france ’s next president . and , though juppé remains far ahead in opinion polls so far , the french could reject his more happy version of french identity in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker party . in terms of both age and profile , he resembles the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in exercise than power conquest .
and , perhaps most important , what are the optimal trade-offs to reach out to reach eu member states and european institutions in order to cooperate more effectively for a shared european future ? some hard political choices lie ahead : which parts of the eu framework program are to continue and end ? how can innovations that are never just technological but social just as well , and that are used entirely ? some hard political choices lie ahead : which parts of the eu framework program are to continue , and that end ? under the banner of the “ simplification , ” ” ” ” the eu gravitates toward outsourcing the majority of its implementation to the eu agencies , one hopes , with more flexibility to satisfy its particular missions . that requires smoothly working and far more efficient interfaces between agencies and the european commission , which retain overall control over them , as well as a thorough revision of the eu-wide future ?
far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , a war is likely to play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . indeed , militant islamists , with their hope of recovering from the hardening of the hardening of terror since the start of the war on terror , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on an imminent war with iraq . a us-iraq invasion , with large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen the sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths , and make them inclined to join al qaeda-style holy warfare cells . the despair and alienation have been holding onto the younger generations of arabs who constitute more than 50 % of the region ’s population . political repression and arab public opinion ’s silence should worry america and its arab allies , not to placate them , for that means that there is no way for the public to channel their interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully .
moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences , either . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier casualty of russian aggression than it is today . yet nord stream 2 would make those ills inevitable . by committing to purchase more russian natural gas than is necessary and , for an extended period , the eu would help to finance russia ’s military build-up that represents a direct threat to european peace . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close .
and those who should be acting as watchdogs for patients are happy to go along . san francisco – the first – appears puzzling : the prescription drug prices of the united states continue to rise at an alarming pace , despite the threat ( or the promise ) of competitive from cheaper generic substitutes . yet , in fact , there is no mystery at all . in fact , pharmaceutical companies are paying out entire us health-care players to favor their more expensive drug over lower-priced alternatives . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
but , while there are many reasons to blame for foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one – will solve nothing . disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future , in which an overwhelming majority of citizens feel disenfranchised . this represents not only an enormous waste of resources ; it is also a grave , long-term sociopolitical problem . though the arab world has traditionally been conservative in recent years , nearly 70 % of its citizens are under the age of 35 , with young people suffering the highest unemployment rates in most countries . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and ineffectual governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capabilities .
almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are female . almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are female . as polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with the full eradication of our sights , we may be able to enable polio to return . to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle , barriers must be addressed – whether physical safety , social constraints , or low pay – that they confront . let us remember that the risks these women take to protect everyone from an illness that has taken an enormous toll on global health worldwide .
in the us , about one-third of adult populations have become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . in the us , about one-third of adult populations have become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , the notion that the former design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking . ” america has no effective regulatory framework for internet platforms and lacks the political will to shape one . the large minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits filtering bubbles created by such platforms as digital fake realities , where existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme .
president bush 's remarks drove home the significance of rigid adherence to the geneva conventions , as well as the questioning of how war crimes trials can be convened in postwar iraq , and who behavior them . america 's plan for war crimes trials cover the violations committed before the current conflict began . when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush declared that he expects them to receive humanely treatment . `` if not , '' `` the president warned , '' `` people who mistreat inmates will be treated like war criminals . '' recently , american officials leaked a list of iraqis facing trial for past crimes .
to manage such cases , one needs a skilled person , with his or her experience , intuition , and even social consciousness . second , today , ’s ’s ’s algorithms become extremely good at pattern recognition when they are provided with big data sets – finding objects in youtube videos , or detecting credit card fraud – but being far less effective with unusual circumstances that are not fit the usual pattern or simply when data are scarce or somewhat noisy . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications – you need a trained human on a decision-making loop . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications – you need a trained human in a decision-making loop . in these “ black box ” boxes , one can not simply read a code to analyze what is happening or check if one is hidden bias .
the second important area of progress has been the reform of russia ’s confederation : the creation of the federal deposit council and reform of the federation council . such changes are controversial , but a federation whose laws are ignored by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which observance of the rule of law depends simply on a whim of local administrators simply can not exist . president putin ’s moves to reinforce an integrated system of power are therefore logical and correct . as a result , russia today is a realistic even if imperfectly integrated federation . at the same time , the country has advanced the path of fiscal federalism : channeling all of the value-added tax on the federal budget , as well as income taxes to regions , makes for a reasonable system of allocation of budget resources among authority tiers .
some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a security cabinet member , were quick to express concern about an arms race agreement . within israel , this is more than a little regard for israel . within israel , many fear that trump is simply seeking to appease israel with rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as the mainstay of american interests in the region . trump may be hoping that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . but , in view of trump ’s own inability to take a real stand on any core fronts of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status – the notion that he plays some well-thought-out long play on the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched .
reinforcing the north ’s housing markets could do wonders wonders to reverse the nagging regional inequalities that have witnessed in recent decades . indeed , in the northwest region , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating growth . should that trend endure , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk ’s economy . one thing we may be absolutely certain is that the us government should continue to pursue policies to engage with the north powerhouse , and perhaps with the midlands engine , too . and vulnerabilities in the london housing market do not seem to spread elsewhere .
and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . fortunately , there has been some encouraging recent signs that the notion of a unitary tax is gaining traction . new delhi , for some time now , has been gaming the rules of the global economy to minimize their fiscal accountability – or even eliminating it altogether . and , for some time now , the independent commission on corporate taxation ( icrict ) has been arguing for unitary taxation by us mncs .
the most promising long-term answer is the life-saving vaccine . the third step must be an expanded research and development program into new , more efficient approaches to controlling the disease . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and , with drugs provided to some of the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost in manufacturing , perhaps extending arv therapies to even the very poor countries at an acceptable price . this includes : funds to stop transmission of maternal to infant children ; to help fight infections like aids ; and , with a sound program , even funding for anti-retrovirals . the recent breakthroughs in staple sciences offer the hope that a vaccine could emerge within a decade if trillions of dollars of r & d funds are mobilized by public-private groups .
indeed , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – during their lifetime . yet the violence against women may be difficult to detect , at least for now . indeed , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence , or both – over their lifetime . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and gender-sensitive practices that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while preventing violence , including by punishing its perpetrators . even those who are aware of it may choose to ignore it , believing that it is neither business nor too widespread to make a difference , or because they are too preoccupied with getting involved .
though managua ’s electoral fraud was most widely documented , the same modus operandi came across the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . this month , new mayors took office without an electoral commission ( cse ) making the public 100 % of the popular vote , an open violation of the nicaraguan electoral law . though managua ’ electoral fraud was among the most widely documented , the same modus operandi came across the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . and , with citizens protesting peacefully , the government resorted to violence in order to curb it . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce , and political parties , the cse refused to allow for the recount of the baltic states or scrutiny by impartial observers .
even if putin did find ways to maintain power without amending the constitution – a possibility that endlessly speculate about russia ’s dwindling band of democrats – the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly obvious . what makes this work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . moving from one high office in the kremlin to the next in the white house ( the seat of russia ’s parliament ) , putin is simply a technicality . it has been rumored that presidential democracy only reinforces russian political culture ’s inclination to favor the rulers with a “ strong hand , ” whereas a parliamentary system would allow for an even more “ horizontal ” distribution of power . no matter what office is formally his own .
the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( which it has largely written ) . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also come back with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s second inauguration and israel ’s current general election and call for an answer in just a couple of months . this would be a bad mistake , and it would have been a bad one . morsi ’s timing has been remarkable : the day after winning an international advisory on his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . if they do , will the west revoke its support for egyptian democracy in the name of an “ stability ” ” ?
liberalism – protecting both minorities and individual civil liberties – – was necessary to intensify them . and it was alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . nonetheless , the word “ liberalism ” does not constitute the same thing for all people . in many circles , it has come to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles . the implication was clear : the democracy of its own people was inadequate .
in essence , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy , but all european boats . in fact , the likelihood now is that such reforms will sink all boats , giving populists the chance to do so . despite talk of a “ green ” economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment agenda , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . in essence , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy , but all european boats . the economist dani rodrik places the appeal of populism to focus .
the second shock was eu integration , including northern and southern enlargements . though globalization is a gradual process , it gained momentum once china chose to play the games . german precision instruments and fiber-optic equipment , for example , had lost its competitive edge as japan entered into the games . the first shock was intensified by globalization , which brought many new low-wage competition . china is ten times the size of japan , and japan has not been an easy match to match , either .
america ’s worsening fiscal position runs into a strong dollar , just as america ’s worsening fiscal position after reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut of two decades ago did . in a dynamic economy , as long as jobs are lost in one sector , new jobs are created in another . while countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad news for us exports and a good thing for imports . it is the primary responsibility of the government to maintain full employment . the government ’s role here is to facilitate the movement of labor from one another .
to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is at the core of all its externalities . defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at heart of their diplomatic calculus . but on great questions about war , peacemaking , and balance-of-power considerations , europeans seem stuck between an inappropriately cohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual countries about how to define and secure their own national interests . by contrast , the world of rising powers in brazil , china , india , and russia insist not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on the sovereign liberty of action just as much . to be sure , a consensus , compromise , and pooling sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many grand issues – from climate change to nuclear proliferation that bedevil our world .
such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : contrary to the nuremberg tribunal , the international community has convened it during , rather than waging , a war . the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , has lost , but it has received 46 % of the popular vote . yet , despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s current president , boris tadic , has so far failed to work with the icty by aiding in turning over mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) , who is certain to testify against milosevic . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , goldz djindjic , has collaborated with the tribunal to pay for that with his life . without full control of either evidence or indicted , the icty has lacked from the outset of the legitimacy and authority of “ victors . ”
moreover , china – the embodiment of a go-for-growth movement – signaled a policy shift toward pursuing better social and environmental outcomes alongside more modest gdp gains . to be sure , that is largely the case for virtue stemming from necessity ; as export-driven gdp growth slowed , the risks of social turmoil over issues like air pollution , nutritional toxicity , and corruption have been on the rise . but the new approach also forms the recognition that china ’s continued evolution will depend on the sound balance of power between the ecology and the economy . for starters , the global financial meltdown and the ensuing recession have laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , undercutting the popular and ideological underpinning the neoliberal view that markets are best at shaping societal outcomes . that shift has been connected with the third , broader trend : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed environmentally , particularly with respect to climate change .
but , two days after the november 2016 american presidential election and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration , and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration , an ngo that i worked to stop the distribution of the reproductive-health guide , on the grounds that it included information on south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right of abortion rights . as part of my work , i have often ramped up educational material for an ngo working on hiv prevention . johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 – us president donald trump essentially took away my own right even to write the word . for young south african women , such texts are offering life-saving information on issues relating to sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s progressive abortion legislation .
will russia ’s annexation of crimea stand forever ? how should it approach china ’s emergence not just realities on earth , but the ground itself , in the south china sea ? indeed , how can america react firmly to russian aggression without forsaking the long-planned project of bringing it closer to the west ? the us election campaign will warm at a time when the us faces a daunting set of problems . will russia ’s annexation of crimea stand forever ?
the us has undermined its command structure , undermined its propaganda , accepted half of its senior management , squeezed its funding , damaged its delivery networks , and dispersed its personnel . today , an international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 more active members . the world can not , and will not , wilt in the face of such extremism , wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria . the us has disrupted its command structure , undermined its propaganda , abducted half of its senior leadership , squeezed its funding , damaged its delivery networks , and dispersed its personnel . since 9/11 , the us has reaped 700 square miles of territory .
when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , rather than artillery , brought it down . academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing america ’s soft power . many of these scholars had become at the forefront of human rights proponents and trade liberalization within the ussr . whereas some american skeptics worried that soviet researchers and kgb operatives were stealing american technologies , they failed to note that vacuumed political ideas alongside scientific secrets . sadly , bush did not seem to have learned this lesson , either .
its aging populations watches resignedly like the new , younger asia becomes just as important for the americas as they were during the cold war . after all , if china is america ’s top economic partner in asia and , if india is america ’s main diplomatic partner , then what remains to be done to japan ? today , chinese-style and indian-style modernity is mentally destabilizing japan . forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” george w bush ’s approach came to view india as the sort of “ anti-china , ” ” ” ” and thus rebalancing the world ’s “ “ greatest democracy ” against the world ’s oldest civilization .
new york – the global recession that is now underway is the direct result not just of financial panics , but of more fundamental uncertainty about the future course of the global economy . decisions about business investment , indeed , are even starker about the business investment rate . consumers are pulling back from their homes and auto purchases not only because they have been hit hard by their wealth effects with falling stock prices and housing values , but also because they are not sure where to turn . should they risk buying another car , when gasoline prices may skyrocket again ? will they put the fed on the table after this year ’s terrifying spike in food prices ?
everywhere in german-controlled europe , the nazis were forced to deal , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated manner , with local governments , if only for a tactical cause . that is precisely why poland is right to insist that the camps no longer be called “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly put it ) . the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal location for german extermination camps , in which the six million polish citizens , together with the three million polish jews and the three million ethnic poles , were assassinated . no trace of the polish authority remained , either . they were german-speaking camps in the occupied poland .
in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other us firm in the world , and completed second to japan in 2009 . in the us , the top suppliers to the global telecoms firm are located in china , where huawei is now headed to head off sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other us firm in the world , and completed second to japan in 2009 . brazil ’s ’s ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a commercial model that has been imitated by others . india , for its part , sells its cars for 75 % fewer than its european competitors .
even for distressed households , which have been borrowing long-term , the effects of higher inflation are dubious . even for distressed households , which have borrowed in the long run , the effects of higher inflation are doubtful . yet , with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wages relatively subdued , the typical troubled households might be even worse off – with higher food and fuel-income prices cutting back on disposable income . meanwhile , the bulk of its liabilities is social-security and health-care provision , which can not be inflated away . what would help is if their nominal disposable income rises relative to their ( rigid ) debt service .
if it missed an opportunity to advance the goal of the asia-pacific free trade agreement , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit last year , it certainly will not pass a chance to ensure that the g20 ’s agenda serves china ’s own interests . yet some potential areas of worry are already becoming apparent . elements of the current g20 agenda align well with china ’s ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure . though china ’s ’s ’s leadership will , it is hoped , lack the drama of 2009 that chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly make the appearance of its own . to be sure , with turkey at the g20 at its helm at the g20 ’s summit last helm , xi probably has yet to settle on concrete priorities .
new york – after the 1789 french revolution , deputies in the national assembly , who backed the revolutionary gains sat on the left , whereas those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of the monarchy and the church congregated on the right . many commentators in france ’s french presidential election highlighted that these categories no longer fit for contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , elsewhere . emmanuel macron , for his part , prides himself on being neither the right nor the left . marine le pen , whose national front is affiliated with the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who was a minister in a socialist government , is a leftist one . thus , the political terms “ left , ” and , indeed , the right .
but the likely failures are just as noteworthy : the new law needs to curb the practices that have jeopardized the entire global economy and reorient the financial system toward its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially to small – and medium-size enterprises ) – and operating an efficient payments system . moreover , it looks likely that outrageous fees charged by any debit transaction – a sort of tax that passes on no public purpose , but to fill the banks ’ coffers – will be curbed . as a result , it is likely to be a long time before assessing the success of whatever legislation the american congress ultimately enacts . the us should take up the likely achievements : some forms of the financial-product safety board will be established ; more derivative trades will move into exchanges and clearing homes from the shadows of murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be curtailed . but the likely failures are just as noteworthy : the new law needs to curb practices that have jeopardized the entire global economy and reorient the financial system toward its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially to small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating an effective payments system .
to be sure , a large majority of french and german citizens identify themselves as europeans , as opposed to the uk ’s citizens , whom they identify as british – or even , like english , iran , scotland , or welsh – as a whole . but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are being reversed : france and britain are highly likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial view of any kind . to be sure , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to joining the united states and nato . the uk is , naturally , closer to nato than france does . that is why german and french critiques of the eu generally focus on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british are often hit by the european project itself .
by agreeing to cap current income-tax rates on just two years , the tax package reduces projected national debt by the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s budget ) of some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . the long-run implications of the deal stand in sharp contrast to both obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and the republican opposition ’s counterdraft constitution . though the new us tax law is generally described as a form of fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids an extensive , instant fiscal contraction . in fact , obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers , compared to those with their annual incomes above $ 250,000 . the house republicans proposed going on the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers , compared to those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 .
the crisis also exposed the scale of america ’s massive over-capacity in the retail market , with estimates that at least one-fifth of all american shopping malls will be forced to shut down . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years . but schemes like public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars have simply led many people to reschedule their purchases . the reaction to the crisis will be hastening of the on-line movement , in which physical location is no longer the preeminent feature of us shopping decisions . spending on automobiles ground to a halt until the government ’s stimulus programs in many countries revived it .
as one confucian classical put it : possessing virtue gives a ruler . confucianism was , in essence , the philosophical justification of the government of a benighted bureaucracy two centuries prior to the birth of christ . possessing the people gives him a territory , possessing the people . in essence , confucianism became the official ideology of a benighted bureaucracy two centuries before the birth of christ . as one confucian classical put it : possessing virtue gives a ruler .
but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , thus cutting hezbollah off hezbollah ’s arms-control lines while enabling the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . the damascene conversion is not only feasible ; it is also vital to regional peace . the most realistic scenario now is the three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah against each other . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime of paranoiac , the syrians are unlikely to satisfy the american condition of peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and marrying them with terror . the only way out of a fateful iranian embrace is to draw it into a regional peacekeeping regime .
thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , upending an entrenched elite consensus that has long prevailed . for a large part of thailand ’s long economic boom over the last two decades , wealth resides mostly in bangkok ’s metropolises , boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority . whereas rural populations had more than enough to consume , their economic opportunities , and upward mobility , were constrained by the shoddy education system and the docile state-run media , which fed a soap operas and an official line of message . for one thing , for another , all highways led to bangkok and its prestigious prep colleges and universities . thailand ’s farm farms have become increasingly alienated from its urban elite .
some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who took part in the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including the activists and religious leaders whom they were forced to flee syria in order to support the afghan revolution . by setting an example of the coexistence , they can mitigate the alawites ’ fears in syria that an deserting assad would have facilitated the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . some of the roughly 150 pro-turkey rebellion alawites who took part in the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including the activists and religious leaders whom they were forced to flee syria in order to support the afghan revolution . if the alawites and sunnis live abroad may stand unified against the assad regime , so could their afghan counterparts inside syria . by setting a example of coexistence , they can alleviate alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime .
though equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route to it , it did not force the matter . in the ndb ’s case , each of the brics owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to the initial subscribed capital . while equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter . china , on the other hand , is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % interest rate , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % ’s . meanwhile , brazil and south africa have made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as “ “ founding members . ”
and it is particularly bizarre that , even as america ’s policies toward mexico have vastly increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-type become president , us officials are giving positive publicity to a government that is caricature of catastrophic governance . rather than bashing latin america , america needs a steady , principled friend that is not swayed by the corrupt bribes of any kind . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in the us dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions on rein in rogue behavior , a policy that drew broad bipartisan support . rather than bashing in latin america , america ’s need to demonstrate that it can be a steady , principled friend that is not swayed by the corrupt bribes of any kind . quite well , in both cases , the us should have said none : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a wealthy country take the money out of an impoverished beggar-thy-neighbor neighbor with millions of agony is hardly an attractive one .
europeans can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . but in europe , the way to think about democracy must be propagated pacifically , through persuasion , not arms force . europeans , after all , are committed to democracy worldwide , after all . a similar solution should be found for the european constitution . indeed , the political imperative is just as great a constitutional one .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , both iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as physicians of specialized training in forensic evaluations , the us has traveled to tijuana to meet with juan , on his behalf lawyer ’s request . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
he has also suggested that america will work with india to develop its indo-pacific security zone . at any rate , the potential for us-india security cooperation in the region , while hinted only at trump ’s own speeches , has already been hotly debated by both us governments . the address also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what may be called the “ trump doctrine . ” trump ’s appreciation of what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , by using its huge export earnings to american aid to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . the implications for trump ’s victory date extend beyond america ’s foreign policy in afghanistan .
it organized the postwar international order : the un , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , the reconstruction of japan , and , more so , the world economy . china now holds a larger economy in absolute terms than the u.s. , even though still about only about one-fourth the magnitude of per capita gdp . under this order , the rest of the world sealed much of the vast technological , education , and the infrastructural divide with america . the us share of the world economy represented by the u.s. has declined by about half ( to about 16 % now , to about 16 % today ) . under this order , the rest of the world closed much of the vast technological , education , and the infrastructural divide with america .
and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and innovation incentives are also critical . indeed , as a report by the international commission on sustainable development finance ( sdgs ) emphasizes , the financing spectrum for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever . to be sure , achieving that goal will be expensive not to mention the other sdgs , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion annually . focusing on corporate social responsibility could help to ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while energy – and resource-efficiency requirements – could help safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and innovation incentives are also critical .
on the other hand , it implies excess benefits . shifts to more energy-efficient forms of transportation are helping to ease the congestion effects of transportation . to be sure , most taxes involve heavy “ excess burdens ” : the costs are vastly outweighed by the revenues that are raised , owing to potential taxpayers ’ myriad experiments in evasion and avoidance . a tax on oil , however , does not involve the excess burden . for example , if high oil prices were the result of those taxes that were then reallocated to oil users , they would be unambiguously good .
the sales of lesser-evil and operating foods did well in the last few years , bringing about $ 85 billion in american sales in 2004 . you are buying low carbohydrate products , energy , and nutritional filings , vitamin a – as well as mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods , and practically anything with health claims . if one routinely buys such foods , you are between the lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) consumers – the health food industry ’s cherished demographic foundation . you are buying low carbohydrate products , energy , and nutritional bars , vitamin a – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods , and other ingredients to enable them to take advantage of “ skilled ” health claims permitted by the us food and drug administration ( fda ) . like many people , i thought that small , innovative firms dominate the workplace foods .
above all , the two countries , whose troubles drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically diverse . the case for capital-market integration and then for the single currency was similar . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , was similar . the common market was defending , at the very outset , the gains that follow from rising trade . the case for capital-market integration and then for the single currency was similar .
according to a recent study , impact investing in the u.s. would not have existed without supporting and partnerships with the federal government through grants , credits , and guarantees . a few existing federal programs , such as community reinvestment act , and a small business investment program , encourage growth in impact finance . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . in july , us government contracts with outside provider to achieve a measurable social objective ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private-sector impact investors finance the program ’s upfront cost , and government promises to return if the program is reached . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance treaties and must be an essential feature of any government program .
china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in fighting fascism and imperialism in wwii , as well as increasingly regarding western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp ran a backlash against japan . but ignorance about the west over china ’s wartime sacrifices – at least 14 million dead and , of its major contribution in holding down more than a half-million japanese soldiers – also echoes the partisan history of the war that has been schooled in china itself . their presence indicates that , behind the parade , martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader , more complicated narrative of china ’s wartime experience emerges . moreover , foreign assistance – including a prominent american role in wartime china – has not been in this narrative .
in real terms , the s & p 500 still stands at 20 % below its january 2000 peak . but are these newfound wealth effects really all being made ? wealth creation matters , but not so long as it re-coups the wealth destruction that precedes it . likewise , whereas the us case-shiller american home price index now stands at 10.2 % in the year ending march 2013 , it remains at 28 % below its 2006 peak . yes , the us stock market is now at all-time high – but only at current dollars .
the left has been deeply divided on virtually all issues – europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and , more – making it exceedingly difficult to identify what precisely represents “ leftist ” policies nowadays . yet that distinction may not be nearly as powerful as the socialists might believe . it was , after all , their center-left voters who had macron elected . and they recognized what they voted for : each policy that was implemented thus far has been incorporated into his campaign ’s platform . indeed , the socialists began to distinguish themselves not from what they are , but from what they are not , touting the line , “ neither macron ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) .
there is even less risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . nor do iran ’s government seem to be facing a real danger . the few saudi demonstrations seem to be populated almost entirely by a minority of shia men , who find little sympathy among majority sunnis , as well as by foreign-built workers petitions of higher wages and improved working conditions . the 2009 brutal crackdown in the post-election protests demonstrated the regime ’s determination to uphold order by whatever means necessary . syria ’s ’s ’s ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than the recent media account of the country ’s unrest suggest .
like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; in contrast to them , however , successive governments have constructed institutions capable of promoting reasonable levels of territorial control and domestic security . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not very well within the same category as central america ’s other three . yet now there is every reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects may have been improving . mexico ’s four central american countries , – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua , among others – are struggling , still burdened by a legacy of the past century ’s two world wars . mexico city , the four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , remains burdened by a legacy of the past century ’s two world wars .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have been absorbing important lessons since the 2011 uprising . as growth slowed , public expenditures have diminished , fueling economic insecurity . no longer content with only aging autocrats , protesters are also targeting key components of deep-seated sovereign and security forces . in addition , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have been absorbing important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . in fact , ten governments in the region already hold debt-to-gdp ratios above 75 % . as growth slowed , public-sector expenditures have diminished , fueling economic insecurity .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is casting that carefully calibrated system into disarray . it is also apparent in its bellicose threats against america of purported enemies . us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is casting that carefully calibrated system in disarray . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not just to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations – a valid demand – but also that they must continue to channel that spending toward us-made weapons systems . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . far from displaying a capacity for persuade , as his book the art of the deal may imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to coerce his “ america first ” agenda on the outside world .
as we have witnessed in recent crises , private-sector risk taking , and debt-burdened , debt becomes socialized once a crisis materializes . so , even as public deficits and debt remain low in the aftermath of a crisis , they may rise sharply after only a few years . a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stocks and flows of national account to capture all dangers , including risk in the financial system and the real economy , along with broader risk-off issues . by contrast , governments , which looked fiscally fiscally sound times suddenly , seem insolvent . by using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identify a multitude of countries where investors lack risk – and opportunities .
subsequently , i briefly joined david cameron ’s government , helping to realign the early stages of a north powerhouse . in recent years , i have been heavily invested in policy aspects of this grand city ’s economic revival . i chaired an economic advisory group to the greater manchester council and then serving as chair of the national growth commission , which advocated for an “ north powerhouse , ” ” a program that would link britain ’s cities to a cohesive economic unit . abedi ’s barbaric action , on the other hand , has killed at least 22 people , many of whom are children . i have never been attending the concert of the manchester arena , but it appears as great venue for the city .
the nile delta – around 60 kilometers ( 200 miles ) in cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the 2011 egyptian uprising , a secondary-school student called “ the jail . ” “ we have never seen a revolution here , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” pocketed a couple of months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing a job . one teacher in the sleepy nile delta village morbidly quips that it doubles as a morgue . a deformed box of concrete packed with dilapidated classrooms , pocketed schoolchildren are pocketed with age and neglect . “ a lot of hope that we have now been dead … . ”
the plan ’s own recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and impairs israel ’s debt sustainability , thereby perpetuating the crisis for all parties to come to an end . the five flaws in the governing council ’s already-deep projected fiscal plan stand out . first , the projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp will decline due to each dollar of fiscal contraction – are used for gnp forecasts that all parties would like to quit . yet the ten-year us fiscal plan endorsed by the board for the 2017-2026 period – which will inevitably shape the foundation of a debt-restructuring debate – seems to ignore this circularity . sadly , the board ’s already-deep projected collapse in actual gnp is notoriously optimistic , because it relies on a lot of implausible and/or controversial assumptions .
dismantling this constraint may endanger the size of a bank ’s triple-a rating , but making it more efficient . the former involves development assistance ; second , by strengthening international institutions , such as the international central bank and the world development agency . such an alliance calls for collaboration not just among governments , but also among civil society . i suggest the emergence of an open society as an alliance with dual purposes : fostering the development of open societies in individual countries , and giving rise to a global open society . such an alliance requires collaboration not just among governments , but also in civil society .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . accra , planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been pressed to step down from the federal title x family-planning program to support lower-income women . accra – planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states – has just been pressed to back into the federal title x family-planning program , which supports lower-income women .
employment policies , for example , did little to reduce robust regional imbalances and discrimination within the regions that had persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after the war there in the 1990 ’s . in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought to be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given these failings , it should come as no surprise that employment policies ’ net effects are often very small relative to the magnitude of the problem . yet , in kosovo , the unemployment rate stood at about 45 % six years after its war ended .
japan will make an even larger effort to combat poverty , which also functions as a hotbed of violence and provide opportunities for medical services , educational attainment , and self-reliance for all of the world ’s people . the us will engrave itself in our heart of history when japan ended up being the challenger to the international order . prosperity is the very foundation of the peace process . the us will strengthen aid to the developing world and lead the world toward continued prosperity for all . upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold core values like freedom , democracy , and human rights as an unyielding set of values , and , by working behind countries that share such values , hoist a flag of “ “ proactive contributions ” to peace , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” prosperity is more than ever before .
this systematic neutering of shi’a forces in saudi arabia is legitimated by the wahhabi religious establishment , and supported by a number of fatwas denouncing them as heresy . though they constitute only 20 % of the saudi population , they constitute a majority of them – 75 % – of the populations in the oil-rich region . in bahrain , the shia who constitute a 75 % population were keen on the reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah . in saudi arabia , the shia are at the frontier of those welcoming democratic change and participating . saudi arabia ’s shia have endured discrimination in occupations : in army , high government posts , the army , and , most significantly , in the oil-producing states where they were excluded from the 1980s .
replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost , because of the sheer number of lives it will help to save . by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products like anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs . in the process , aids deaths have fallen by more than 50 % since its peak , and malaria deaths have declined by about 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now the fund has about $ 14 trillion in new financing to continue this work . by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund has built a massive supply chain to deliver goods .
depression may be cured , but only by giving the patient a positive vision of the future . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest people have washed their hands of politics . the higher education they seem to be lower than voter participation : among those who never voted , the percentage of upper-education people is about twice the size of those without a college degree . the right-centrist parties – which are the right forces union and yabloko – are doing such a vision , and the people know it . this is the sort of political depression .
this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , a temporary alliance , or , more lasting alliances like nato . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western ” powers , particularly on this occasion , would not , above all , change a fundamental perception that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond it . but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this latest point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . it is only explicit , up-front approval by a reformed un security council , that can deliver the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – requires .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were shorter and first delivered birth when younger people had more children . when we estimated how much variation among individuals might be attributable to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . but genes are just one of the many factors affecting height and age at first birth . personal choices , nutrition , income levels , educational attainment , and religious affiliation all enter the mix . that has left 95 % of variation to explain the effects of culture and individual choices .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis has been fracturing public faith in the continent ’s own political and economic institutions , one would expect european leaders to step up as many unifying symbols as they can . contrary to the brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions annually . ) ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions annually . ) instead , they have allowed one of post-world war ii european integration – the european court of human rights ( echr ) – to come under threat just as much .
in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may seem to be serving a vital purpose . one deploys soldiers to fight terrorism ; another provides critical energy delivery or access to raw materials . like security expert sarah palin argues in the fight against corruption , the volume of essays that the brazilian government published to accompany the summit , corruption today is structured practice today . in order to identify the best possible approach on any particular issue , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data collection . inevitably , leaders must contend with difficult tradeoffs .
they can be viewed as alternative forms of taxation , however implicit , rather than explicit . after all , they are various methods to force the current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulating debt . ultimately , they are divergent methods to force current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulating debt . they are likely to be viewed as alternative forms of taxation , however implicit , rather than explicit . willingly or not , some might seek recourse to inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic saving into treasury financing and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) or , eventually , outright debt restructurings .
after the shock of the terrorist attacks of september 2001 , his son , george w. bush , had devised a much more ambitious vision . yet one needs to be wary of visions of the future . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called the vision thing . at times , leaders seem to think that vision may solve most of their problems , but the flawed vision – or an over-ambitious vision – can do harm . when pressed with his staff to speak out more boldly and for a long time , he replied , “ it ’s ’s not me ” just not .
and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing off from their paris climate commitments . moreover , according to a recent american department of energy report , the number of manufacturing jobs in wind and solar industries has increased by more than 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing off from their climate commitments . trump ’s foreign-policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which has been taking the initiative to spur climate-minded technological innovations . in the us , wind costs have fallen by two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale costs have declined by more than 85 % .
moreover , should conditions in the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could suffer even more . china ’s potentially powerful domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers may help it avoid a hard landing . already , the spillover effects from the trade and financial transmission channel are starting to take on a toll : china ’s annual gdp growth rate averaged 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , reflecting a notable slowdown , with india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate expected to decline to about 6 % this year . it has already aggressively given up monetary policy and can employ yet more fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and the structural vulnerabilities in the financial sector and local governments could undermine growth-enhancing efforts .
for example , in the five years since japan reached that level , its economy was growing at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . given that china is projected to converge on the same threshold sometime earlier this year , many believe that its average annual gdp growth over the next five years will fall well short of 7 % . in hong kong , the growth rate dropped to 4.8 % , on average . using historical data compiled by the economist angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experience a deceleration in terms of their per capita gdp reached about $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the dollar ’s constant 1990 level , or about $ 17,000 in constant 2005 u.s. dollar prices . in hong kong , the growth rate dropped to 4.8 % , on average , to just 4.8 % .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , both iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama was famous in cairo as much as a new start , ” ” that he included a public admission of the united states ’ past missteps in the region .
it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet of a single board in an open competitive system than it is under the present regime . the last thing that the ecb needs is a political crony for germany ’s chancellorship gerhard schroeder assuming that mr. jean-claude juncker ’s key post is upheld . giving large countries permanent executive seats also makes it easy for their politicians to cede control over the ecb through the appointments process . giving large countries permanent seats on the executive board also makes it easy for their politicians to control the ecb through appointments . some of the best people actually serving the ecb – or who have served in the past – are from small countries .
as long as this internal divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be fully addressed , because current-account deficits and/or slowing growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating growing worries about sovereign-debt and business banks . but labor costs have risen far more rapidly in the south , resulting in differential costs that can not be addressed through devaluation as long as the currency union endures . indeed , excessive wage deflation probably has negative effects on productivity . skilled labor is likely to emigrate more quickly , with extreme austerity , falling prices and high levels of unemployment and the consequent probability of social tensions falling short of investment , innovation , or labor mobility . against this backdrop , productivity growth – whether through technical advances , improved resource allocation , or productive investment – is as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint becomes .
indeed , the key elements of a modern british identity all seem to belong to england rather than to the composite entity . former prime minister john major referred to the uk as being “ the land of the long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beer , invincible green suburbs , rail networks , and pools fillers , ” and , as george orwell put it , the ‘ old maids bicycling bicycling to the holy communion through the morning fog ’ … ” likewise , the established or the nation-state church was the church of england , which was created almost 500 years earlier , when king henry viii decided that a catholic pope should not adjudicate its marriage . that , of course , does not mean that no identity is claimed . an institution called the english heritage curates the past , from prehistoric monuments to the old homes of st. thomas in the tv costume dramas . likewise , the establishment or the state churn is the church of england , created almost 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that a catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage .
both abe and obama focus on building a durable peace structure for all of asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play an increasingly active role in this regard and to support its allies . that stance makes the alliance far more an equal partnership of equals than it has over the past six decades . increased military cooperation with the us is now particularly important , given america ’s worries about many of its other strategic partners in the region ’s readiness to join the readiness . that bold policy initiative , in the face of japan ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any heightened military threat , has undoubtedly endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists just as well as to secure both an open and at times tacit approval by japan ’s ’s asian neighbors . in america ’s recent perspective , reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s constitution of peace constitution , which abe committed – in doing so doing – to enable japan ’s self-defense forces to help its allies under assault and to help america and other allies in meeting their commitments to secure asia ’s peace – has been long overdue .
iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and , because long lines of citizens eager to cast their votes clearly demonstrate , the iranians know it . with khamenei having served as president before ascending them to iran ’s top political and religious leadership positions , it is easy to see that the conservative candidate , raisi , , was in power , might become khamenei ’s successor . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s resounding lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health challenges are its public understanding of them . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor , in the near future , should be named is no low . the matter for who will fill the presidency during this transition is certainly not inconsequential .
yet , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . the recent trilateral summit in china , south korea , and japan marks the fourth such a meeting , in addition to meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits . yet , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building toward greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . moreover , north korea ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and insecurity regarding its very future as a nation-state , are fueling profound anxiety among its neighbors . yet , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for more regional cooperation in overcoming them .
for more than 20 years now , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating for their outsize savings imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers are benefiting immensely from low-end chinese imports , the walmart effect , that enable them to stretch their budgets into an era of unrelenting pressure on us jobs and real incomes . but here the recent past should not be viewed as prologue to consider . in fact , china has made a conscious strategic choice to alter its growth strategy . a seismic shift stands out , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well follow .
ten-year us treasury bonds now yield only about 2.5 % of gdp . reaching the yield has also narrowed the credit spreads between high-class bonds and the riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds . with the current inflation rate at over 2 % and markets predicting a similar level of inflation over the longer term ( as measured by the five-year five-year-forward period of inflation expectations ) , ten-year us treasury bond yields should be just over 4 % . ten-year us treasury bonds now yield only about 2.5 % of us treasury bonds . an increase in the ten-year yield to 4 % would reduce the value of these bonds substantially .
because raising capital is challenging and expensive , they deleverage less in terms of lending . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness now goes well beyond its reduced lending supply . because raising capital is challenging and expensive , they deleverage with less lending . moreover , because financial institutions were bought primarily with borrowed money , credit shortages are compounded by their need to deleverage . at the same time , falling employment lowers wage and wage incomes and wage incomes . but , without that trust , credit will not flow and economic activity will become constrained .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products and engage in large-scale speculation everywhere around the world may have served its firms well , despite imposing large costs on others . or will they simply push for cosmetic reform , – the bare minimum required – to justify the $ mega-trillion us dollar of bailouts ? today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be harnessed and misused to serve some of the same interests . have those who have been squeezed by deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reform , – the bare minimum required to justify the $ mega-trillion us dollar bailouts ?
to be sure , the precise policy approach adopted in one country can not be imitated elsewhere . and , now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , the recovery is broadening to other industries . a variety of factors have been driven by this growth . in short , the credibility that ireland has gained through the resolute fiscal policies and reforms has helped to restore trust , facilitate a return to growth , and thus fiscal consolidation . wage restraint and productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports .
because such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , they need substantial official muscle and peer pressure . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of an eventual write-down , actually adds to superior outcomes . a third component is the exercise of suasion to bondholders in order to obtain maximum participation , gain binding precommitments , and eliminate free riders . as a result , under this model , and despite initial pressures , bondholders ’ behavior could be viewed as being fundamentally voluntary . and , whereas ratings agencies might still account for the vienna-type outcome as a form of default , talmudic sages reveal why a more thoughtful classification requires .
every city has grocery stores , the beauty parlors , from gas stations , and film theaters to serve the local community . as a result , a market economy fosters specialization : we have become very good at a narrow set of skill or product , exchanging them for millions of other things that we have little clue as to or make . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange system ; money only tracks the value of the gifts to which we give one another . that observation comes as being true of an individual as it is about a place , be it neighborhood , city , state , or province , or country . as a result , we end up doing quite few things and buy anything else from others .
moreover , georgia ’s reward for providing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil was not us dollars ; it was a policy of diplomatic insurance – that is , western , mainly the us , concern about the safety of its pipelines . the oil and gas pipelines are transport conduits rather than actual employers . but these investments have brought no economic trickle to an unprecedented number of years . people here survive on just a few dollars a day , and only a few years later . another consortium has begun to construct multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan via georgia to turkey and the west .
even in hong kong , where equities have recently hit new highs , they are only about 10 % above their peak in early 1994 . during the same three year period , prices in wall street and europe have skyrocketed by more than 60 % , or above all , over the same period . as a result , politicians are warning the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” this picture bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches , or have been reading in business newspapers . in fact , japanese shares are worth about half of what they are in 1990 .
germany ’s reluctance to take the lead on these issues partly reflects a historic inhibitions that are always hard to overcome . robust central institutions , accountable to the directly elected parliament , are necessary to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . national banking systems are to be unified , to separate private-sector losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision , and resolution institutions , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme that forms the backbone of the european banking union . in the longer term , the single market should be expanded to service , and a free-trade agreement that should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . austerity should be relaxed , especially in fiscally stronger core economies , and substantial resources should be devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in the small , medium-size firms in over-indebted countries .
china ’s ’s insolent prosperity , though far from being divided equitably , is china ’s relative political stability , even as the regime ’s ’s opening remains severely constrained , is undeniable and deserving of respect . in fact , china has much to show up in its recent history . in sixty years , a weak , divided country , one torn between wars and external , is on the verge of becoming the world ’s second most powerful economy . just consider the massive access to the education of its vast rural population in stark contrast to its “ “ democratic rival ” of india , which is why china nowadays holds legitimate pride . just consider the massive access to the education of its vast rural population in stark contrast to its “ democratic rival ” of india .
perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort able to stabilize the banking system and the financial system in times of crisis . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would have been willing to forego seigniorage ( the gains from central-bank operations , which typically benefit the national treasuries ) . all things considered , an independent scotland would best served by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering scotland ’s national bank to establish interest rates on the basis of domestic economic conditions . by enabling exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would also enable the central bank to avoid the twin risks that arise from a currency union : the undervaluation that produces inflationary pressure and overvalue that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( drives down real wages ) . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland could be minimized by issuing sterling debt , thereby protecting investors from an additional devaluation risk .
though the transition has been bound to be painful , russia ’s epidemic of corruption has resulted in more political harm than the economic side effect of reform . the government ’s tolerance of bribery and racketeering have allowed opponents to say that the “ mafia ” has been grabbing the gains from economic change . in fact , corruption blights reform throughout the country ’s ex-communist world . value-subtracting heavy industries have been shrunk , services have been expanding to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russia ’s output . the government , and therefore economic reform , pays off this neglect at the polls .
though he does not sacrifice major moral principles to power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . indeed , he crams his own party with mediocrities , selects the majority of poor advisers , and does not obey the rare good ones . many people have voted for him in a state of default , both now and after his defeat in miloševic in 2000 . he crams his own party with mediocrities , selects mostly bad advisers , not listening to the scarce good ones . perhaps his image as a right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who wants serbia to rebuild its pre-wwii monarchy and the orthodox church to play a significant role in political and social life .
or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for a paltry pleasure to be seen on tv . they will carelessly allow themselves to become intoxicated by sight of the luminaries and experts of la france ’s d’en haut ( elite france ) seeming to eat from their hands and hang on their each word . the yellow vests need to choose : a democratic re-invention or an updated version of national socialist leagues ; a willingness to repair , or a urging to destroy . but if the yellow vests permit passionate hate to prevail over a genuine brotherhood and choose wrecking over reforming , they will bring about only chaos , not improvement , the lives of a humble and vulnerable population . they will careen on the darkest side of the political night and end up in the dustbin of history where they can swerve with those other yellows , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow ” socialists ” ” ” ” ” ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry .
according to iranian-turkish business council vice president , this is exceedingly complicated to do business in iran . yet others blame iran ’s “ invisible hand , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to fear that iran and turkey could become overly powerful . what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failure in iran ? others suggest that iran ’s near-non-existent banking system is the culprit . a former turkish diplomat described the business climate on stark terms : “ it ’s as if iranians prefer a lose/win one in their dealings with overseas partners . ”
moreover , we need to invest in the research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments , as well as on diagnostic tools that fit low-resource settings . smart collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to develop efficient , affordable , and workable solutions are also in dire need . this disparity has prompted the lancet medical journal to call the ncd crisis the “ amr ” problem of social justice of our time . in fact , diabetes is not unique among ncds , but also in the developing world . likewise , essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are considerably less widely available and proportionally more expensive for people in low - and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world .
every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a list of previous recommendations and implementation positions . south orange , new jersey – if an international organization makes recommendations to improve the country ’s economies , and the country has adopted fewer than half of them – the organization may seem like a failure . but an international organization should be judged by the quality of information and advice that it provides , rather than whether governments are listening . indeed , measuring its success based exclusively on compliance ignores the goal : encouraging – and facilitating – – reform by informing officials about its cost and benefits . in its 2010 survey of the united nations , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme .
most importantly , he will have to secure the north korean regime , at least in order to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and to agree on a process for an ongoing dialogue , perhaps culminating in yet another summit . then again , persuading trump to engage in a self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet to come . most importantly , he will have to muster the north korean regime , at least in order to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and to agree on a process for an ongoing dialogue , perhaps culminating in yet another summit . likewise , he must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliance with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe over the process , lest either leader feel ignored or undermine . then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet to come .
germany ’s next governing council , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with a fresh vision and a willingness to push through european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . an exit from the cdu/csu “ grand coalition ” might mean an end to political stagnation not only in germany , but on the european level , too . germany ’s next governing council , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with a fresh vision and a willingness to push european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new populist crop could be the driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push through european-level reforms , perhaps along the lines of what macron proposed .
last year , nigeria was celebrating a spectacular flight from the country ’s dictatorship . it would have taken six long years , under rapacious military rule , before nigeria received yet another chance for democracy . eliminating the fuel subsidies created riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that provided a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to reassert military control . the timing could not have been worse , either . following the brutal and hyper-corrupt military chief of staff ali zardari abacha , who abruptly dropped dead , the army sullivan , agreed to yet another national election .
instead of sidestepping the sexual and reproductive health issue more broadly , governments need to acknowledge their responsibility to address the needs of women . such barriers are particularly high levels of lgbtqi , adolescent women , rural women , and adolescents . and they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health play in women ’s lives , an integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . rather than providing sidestepping the sexual and reproductive health issue more broadly , governments need to acknowledge their responsibility to address the needs of women . for example , reducing maternal mortality is not a sufficient reason to offer antenatal attention , safe delivery , and postnatal care ; likewise , women need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made , in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that modernizing the armed forces are intrinsically connected to domestic developments . brazil ’s ’s ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that modernizing its armed forces is intrinsically connected to domestic development . it thus emphasizes the need to bolster the country ’s domestic defense industry . to meet the challenges of this complicated reality , brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s peaceful foreign policy must be underpinned by a robust defense policy .
yet the actual promise for both china and india lies in the future . eighth year ming , the chinese star of the us national basketball association ’s houston rockets , may become just another michael jordan , with china set to host the 2008 summitry olympics . large expatriate communities in the us account for the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to its domestic political and social values , and its style and substance to its foreign policies . yao ming , the chinese-owned star of the us national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become just another michael jordan , with china set to host the 2008 summitry olympics . moreover , the transnational connection in the us is near , because western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time service .
his hope is that some eu members are ’ interest in securing russia ’s natural gas supply during the cold war will cause them to forget their allies ’ security interests – a classical divide-and-rule strategy – served chile . europeans can not afford to receive this . the european commission ’s september deal to delay the full realization of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union , an agreement that ukrainians were fighting and dying for the first time in kyiv signaled to putin that shrewd , force , and intimidation may win the western acquiescence of ukraine in its subjugation of crimea . the delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , rather than merely whetted putin ’s appetite . ukraine may now be just about passing through the storm ’s eye .
for example , we should ask whether it makes good sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or if some powers and funding should instead be decentralized toward regions and peoples . to this end , reframe the constitution to incorporate regional interests , and to recognize that the uk is a supranational state . such radical shifts , and meeting the scale of the crisis , must be a radical one , requiring a nationwide debate that could be conducted through the peoples of the constitutional convention . we should ask , for example , whether it makes perfect sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or if some powers and funding should instead be decentralized to regional bodies and peoples . such a radical change , and to match the scale of the crisis , must be a radical one that will require a nationwide debate that could be conducted through the peoples of the constitutional convention .
while most of its citizens are not aware of it , the eu is serving as an inspiring example . the prospect of eu membership has been the single most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies . but it can set an example , both within and outside of its own borders . the eu can not possibly take the place of the americas as the world ’s leader . as a result , america is no longer at the forefront of setting the world on board .
this is not to say that the athletic glory substitutes for military glory . like his old soviet masters , he conflated his athletic glory with military glories . like his old soviet masters , he conflated his athletic glory with military glories . this is one reason to have personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 zimbabwean winter games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag on it was well known , considering that russia has won the most nobel medals . to be sure , putin regards the olympics – and , specifically , medals – to be highly significant .
it is , after all , a country that can be described as a form of civilization , and its trajectory has been far more impressive than that of any north korean rocket to date . chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to engage in international sanctions is often blamed on their beliefs about whether or not they work . but that simply attempts to spin a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly hard time telling its business community not to do business with somebody , particularly its historic friend and ally . perhaps true pragmatism on display in north korea ’s case is its reluctance to rein in the us business community in an era of slower gdp growth and an internal fixation . china ’s rise is one of the most studied developments of the us .
washington , dc – a sharp drop in the price of crude oil since the end of june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , producing plenty of contradictory explanations . others are focusing on the expansion of america ’s oil and gas production . regardless of the reason for falling prices of prices , they probably find themselves with some combination of these factors – the consequences are just the same . still others are suspicious of the tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states , which focuses on , among other things , weakening political rivals such as russia and iran . some attribute the windfall largely to falling global growth expectations .
with the american economy now recovering strongly , the price of oil should remain high , or even rise further , for the foreseeable future . at about $ 30 per barrel , the price of oil is outstanding , even as a soft global economy implies that world demand is low . at about $ 30 per barrel , the price of oil is outstanding , even as a soft global economy implies that world demand is low . even with improved security , it will take another five years to get iraqi oil to full stream . the global oil situation , at the very moment , is especially interesting .
as with its predecessor , the securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , of the european union ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of an equal treatment with private creditors still has little precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb highly subject to a political backlash – witness the ecb ’s visceral reaction to the ecb ’s president , mario draghi , mario draghi , to declare . reversing that process will probably not happen until the three key components of the banking union include common supervision , a common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund within a tangible framework . the omt program creates credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has emerged over the past three years . as with its predecessor , the securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , the european union ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of an equal treatment with private creditors still a precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb highly exposed to a political backlash – witness the ecb ’s visceral reaction to the german press of president mario draghi ’s president , mario draghi ’s announcement . but omts also fits well with a huge body of historical evidence that , in times during the crisis , eu policymakers must target extinguextinguishing the fire rather than negotiating over who owns the water and what its costs should be .
two other republican presidential candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised more constructive reform ideas . so far , the one american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is the former florida governor bill clinton , who has proposed modernizing social-security reforms and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and heavier debt burdens on future generations . premium support can reduce medicare spending substantially , because it establishes a framework for more efficient expenditure on benefits , fueled by competition and health-care innovations in care and coverage . for starters , bipartisan tax-support proposals , with seniors accepting subsidies to purchase private health-insurance insurance , should be implemented . so far , the only american presidential candidate to recognize the need for such a future-oriented approach is the former florida governor bill governor bill clinton , who has proposed modernizing social-welfare reforms and medicare reforms that are avoiding imposing high costs on middle-income americans and the heavier debt burdens on future generations .
fifteen years later , signor berlusoni ’s understanding that an italian state ’s monopoly of tv would not have survived and jump-started what had become italy ’s major privately owned media group . in the 1960 ’s , he was the first to see that milan , then the traditional italian town , where people took a long time to work , would have become a modern metropolises surrounded by an american-style suburb . but you are not winning in tv and real-estate business without proper political connections . silvio berlusconi , who is becoming the european union ’s president on july 1 st , is a man of vision that once loved risk -- and whose business bets have paid off large . so his fortune started in real-estate development .
for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been engaging in prudent monetary loosening , which entails freeing up more funding for lending by banks , which allocate a certain proportion of their total loan portfolio to small and medium-size enterprises . but , with corporate trending financing costs , this is finally beginning to change . through its “ one belt , ” the pboc has also initiated lending directly to the banks that pledge to take advantage of social-housing construction funds . beijing – financial repression – the government ’s policies to create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating low-cost financing for public spending – has long been a key feature of chinese economic policymaking . likewise , through its “ pledged supplemental lending ” program , the pboc has initiated lending directly to the banks that pledge to take advantage of social-housing funds .
but nato enlargement is not likely to turn russia ’s foreign policy into a more peaceful world . moreover , today , russia is far too weak to put them at risk , because the catastrophic misadventure of the russian military in chechnya demonstrates . russia ’s democrats with an enormous stake in a peaceful future are adamant that expanding alliance membership in central europe will insulate their countries from europe , consolidate russia ’s political forces , which favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and , by appearing threatening russia , provide a rallying point for reconstructing russia ’s military might . one day , russia will become stronger , and , if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage the revival of its imperial foreign policy then , this would be a powerful argument in favor of doing just that . the eu ’s enlargement , however , is not likely to turn russia ’s foreign policy into a more peaceful world .
it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in the polytheist ocean , and in which israel is free to depend only on its comparative merits in the eyes of the cynical , realistic actors to judge it solely on the basis of their own national interests . israel ’s leaders appear to be intent on gaining both tactically , by resisting the soft strain of us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china are playing an increasingly important role . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . israel may be “ “ “ “ europe , ” ” ” ” ” ” and its principal ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders need to start thinking seriously about how their country can thrive in a post-western world . that world , however , will still be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt towards major powers .
he ca n’t find sufficient spending cuts ( magic asterisk has gone away from the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; gdp acceleration is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario has vanished ) , and tax revenue has not grown ( no rabbit in laffer hat ) . the performer explains that the us deficit is all the congress ’s fault for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the budget deficit , because the “ congress ” can not spend the money it does n’t have . that trick never really works , of course . the audience now tell us that falling tax revenues and a widening budget deficit have been the blueprint all along . the performer explains that the us deficit is all the fault of congress for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the budget deficits , because the “ “ congress ” can not spend money it does n’t have .
in one of the darkest hours of the roman empire ’s demise , benedict published a stirring call for “ tolerance ” and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarity . but there is also the pressing imperative of mobilizing european public opinion around the symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is the european flag . for this reason , in january , one launched the notion that , beginning on march 21 , we depict a flag on homes , factories , and office . march 21 is the first day of the spring , and we would like to believe that the upcoming european elections will herald a new spring for the european project . march 21 also marks the anniversary of benedict ’s death , european patron .
in the united states , right-wing extremists have conducted far more attacks than the islamists have . according to the 2018 global terrorism index , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has been rising steadily since 2014 . this fits into a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds are immediately classified as having been “ terror ” acts and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic fashion , whereas violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies are treated like an “ isolated incident . ” the assault in christchurch received a direct boost from the 2011 far-right terrorist attacks in norway , of which i am one of fortunate survivors . but nothing is isolated from such incidents .
after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , by now relocating from bonn to berlin , contented itself again with a lower european profile . after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , by now relocating from bonn to berlin , contented itself once again with a lower european profile . that modest , unassuming role within the eu belongs firmly in the past , even though german power still has aligned itself with imagination . the fruit of a franco-german partnership has included europe ’s single currency . tibetans like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project represent a fading memory , because germany has so far produced a comparably robust strategy for revitalizing the eu ’s prospects and popularity .
while the rest of the world is struggling to raise savings rates , china , with its savings rate at more than 40 % , is struggling to get its people to consume more . in fact , meeting the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate consumption . but this is an odd arrangement : the relatively poor countries help to finance america ’s post-war war on iraq , just as a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people , whereas enormous needs at home imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment . while the rest of the world are struggling to raise savings rates , china , with its savings rate at more than 40 % , is struggling to get its people to consume more . china has been engaged in what could be called the “ vendor ’s finance , ” ” ” ” providing the money that helps to finance an enormous american fiscal and trade deficit , enables americans to purchase more goods than they sell .
after all , both activity , after all , are financed by investors seeking returns on their capital , creating an incentive for profit more than compassion . selling the five-rupee sachets of shampoo to the poor consumers is seen as clever marketing ; but , on the contrary , the lending of $ 1,000 to the starving peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . so far , however , pmfis have been successful at meeting a genuine need . the selling five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is deemed to be a clever marketing ; one is paying a ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor appears improper , if not immoral . yet one is clearly less socially acceptable than another .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence ( ai ) and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a rapidly growing array of tasks , including some that require elaborate cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . among economists , however , the consensus view is that roughly 80 % of the lost output in american manufacturing jobs over the past three decades has been labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade approaching a distant third . to hear from us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for lost manufacturing jobs in the united states . berkeley – the advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a rapidly growing array of tasks , including some that require elaborate cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . that process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse impact on both quantity and job quality has raised serious concerns .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan appeared to have been able to do no wrong in its economists ’ eyes . they saw an apparent edge in japanese competitiveness relative to the north atlantic over a wide range of high-tech precision and computerized manufacturing tradable goods . they also saw an economy that , since reconstruction began in the aftermath of world war ii , greatly outperforming european economies ’ expected growth . and they saw an economy growing vastly faster than the north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same level of absolute and relative economy-wide productivity . the safe bet of the late 1980 ’s seemed that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the existing palestinian-israeli war actually amounts to two wars : the “ unjust ” war against israel and jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine ” ; and the palestinian people ’s “ only ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . yet , despite the intifada , the number of settlers since 144 settlements fell by only a few years , and more than 7,000 settlers in the gaza strip alone are the 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished land already suffering one of the world ’s highest populations . israeli state support for the expansion of settlements is substantial . there are approximately 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza strip , excluding some 190,000 people living in jerusalem neighborhoods that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders , partitioned jerusalem . amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the existing palestinian-israeli war actually amounts to two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine ” and a palestinian people ’s “ only ” war for an independent state worthy of name .
contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy and spain , have suffers from a seemingly irresistible surge in borrowing costs ; and policy strains are growing more widely and more visible . yet they have lost their touch with each other , and they have been left behind . the market ’s reaction has been to send spanish government-bond rates even higher . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy suffers from a seemingly irresistible surge in borrowing costs ; and policy strains are growing more visible .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historic tensions , maintaining a durable security balance will be no easy feat . yet there are the levers to help , and that can be done to help . in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton debated how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a containment policy . clinton rejected that advice : forging an anti-china alliance with the us would have been impossible , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton opted for a policy that could be called on to integrate and insure the ” ” .
for example , trump undoubtedly succeeded in persuading some americans to view themselves as part of something similar to the white identity movement . but that identity – and how its adherents frame their interests – could change once again . the image of the irresistible populist “ wave ” ” ” ” has always been misleading . interests and identities are dynamically shaped as politicians create offers of representation , and citizens are responsive to it . farage has not brought about brexit by all on its own .
these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and cutting-edge technologies , as well as the so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other wellness options . developing and rewarding staff members who possess such skills will be an additional but welcome , challenge . while the magnitude of many r & d organizations is bound to diminish with such reforms , the complexities of managing and maximizing the impact on this externalities will require new skills and capabilities , and more than those of eminent science . they will facilitate interactions across their networks to spur the development of innovation ecosystems . the resulting opportunities for expanding beyond traditional goods and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into societies offering multiple health-care solutions .
the social world is different from the physical world , because it is man-made , and hence almost infinitely malleable . so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old models with superior ones , but by expanding its models library , with each shedding light on another social contingency . economics is not the type of science in which one true model could ever work in every respect for contexts . the bottom line is not far-fetched to achieve a consensus on which model is correct , as romer puts it , but rather to figure out which model applies best in a given setting . and do that always remain a craft rather than a science , especially given the choice that must be made in real time .
as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations are discouraging indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled laborers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that the indian government should redouble its reform efforts on this front . india ’s ’s ’s ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth slowdown will hinge on its drive to build a flexible labor market , centered on the easing of obsolete and complicated employment laws . today , the agricultural sector accounts for just one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . legal protections for workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those in much of the developed world , just as china does , with mandated requirements rising as the number of staff increases . equally important , india ’s working-age population – particularly among young people – needs opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously .
taken together , this holistic approach represents something new to china . brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted an “ investment partnership ” program to coordinate investment in finance and transport infrastructure industries . equally important , asean also expands the availability of chinese financing , credits , and insurance to investors . brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted an “ investment partnership ” program to coordinate investment in finance and transport infrastructure industries . yet , despite significant political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments seem keen to meet china ’s through reform efforts with internal governance .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given the accelerated growth of china ’s services-led service sector , one of the key building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing . eventually , of course , gdp composition provides the acid test of whether or not china has succeeded . but the key word here is , at long last , “ ” ” ” ” of ” ” ” ” . it is far too early to expect major shifts in major sources of aggregate demand . it is far too early to expect major shifts in major sources of aggregate demand .
many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a threat to jobs ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for more protectionism . europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the opposite direction . yet , ultimately , there is no broad-based support within the us for a return to closed borders . european multinational companies also hold large stakes in the chinese economy , with eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now showing little appetite for more protectionism . to be sure , the us presidency grants trump significant power to shape us trade policies , so that one can not ignore the possibility of pursuing protectionist measures to appease his supporters .
at a time when he took the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin ’s tune of $ 19 million . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal gently with those who had displease him . deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , had previously maintained an estimated $ 10 million in annual contracts with manafort . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal gently with those who had displease him . manafort , too , offered brief deripaska about what was happening in the trump campaign .
egyptians and tunisians are right to feel proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , like someone who has led the way in a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism , because regime change is only the first step in establishing a democracy backed by the rule of law . indeed , like my country , ukraine is now demonstrating , following a revolutionary euphoria fades and a normality return , democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . the first of ukraine in recent lessons for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections are not making a democracy . kyiv – from snowy kyiv – has been watching the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with delight and admiration .
that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , the multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprinting , and face ) affecting more than one billion indians . nandan nandan nilekani , the chairman of the infosys who has left his job to create the system known as aadhaar , the credits it needs to be saved by the indian government of roughly $ 9 trillion by eliminating duplicate and misleading identity in the government ’s recipient lists . above all , biometrics can be protected against the theft of us identities on their own . nandan nilekani , the chairman of the infosys who has left his job to create the system , known as aadhaar , by credits it with the help of the indian government of roughly $ 9 trillion by eliminating the duplicate and false identity in the government ’s beneficiary lists . increasingly , we are using our fingerprints or face to unblock our smartphones , pay for shopping , and board airplanes .
the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of an economic meltdown will long be felt in the developing world . pittsburgh – almost six months ago , at a moment of great alarm in the global financial and economic crisis – the g-20 ’s leaders met for an historic summit in london . their collective commitment to stimulating , regulate , and restructure global economic activity has helped to calm nerves around the world . many of the problems that have spurred the london summit remain real . anxiety levels may have been coming down , at board rooms and stock markets , but the daily drama of the survival continues to continue .
roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , with the talk of forces likely to confront the dark tide of vulgarity and the violence under trump . or was she just the party ’s hottest girl – the one an avid adolescent man being asked to leave france , and then to hold on tightly ? the first is the sovereign people who have poured into the streets of any large city in a country with a perception that , in terms of total voter turnout , they are , not trump , who won an election last year . were we observing the appearance of someone with an intimate knowledge about the catastrophes that are yet to come ? the world now is collectively writing a new novel .
perhaps he traveled his own journey to damascus , come face-to-face with what he did and whom he did , repented , and wants to correct some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects that he has wrought . perhaps he traveled his own road to damascus , come face-to-face with what he did and whom he did , repented , and wants to correct some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects that he created . and it is not as though congressional republicans seem to think that they owe enough to simpson for him to swing a single vote in either the chamber of the legislature . even in that case , however , naming those who do badly to important high-level trust positions and acclaim them as bipartisan statesmen give the following generation truly lousy incentives . perhaps simpson had a change of heart , too . perhaps simpson officials had assured me that simpson had , indeed , had a change of heart ; that he is a smart person with a sophisticated grasp of issues ; that he can sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s advice as “ “ bipartisan ” ” ” ( though he may not sway genuine legislators ) ; and that it is about a genuine asset to make the commission ’s substantive work
yet the largest tfr declines in recent years have been in the developing world . over the longer term , the population is said to be stable if the tfr is at its replacement rate , a bit above 2.3 for the rest of the world as a whole , and somewhat lower , at 2.1 for the advanced countries , which reflects their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most advanced countries now stands at well below replacement levels . the oecd average stands at about 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , are producing fewer than 1.4 children per woman . what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average rate of living births per woman over her lifetime .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad news for business , there are actually three major channels , through which regulation can profit the economy as a whole . in fact , a number of regulations are playing out in this standard-setting role . one is the market-creation and market-growing role that has been illustrated by the standard of gsm . the global reach of regulation implied enormous economies of scale on handsets and network hardware manufacture , so prices have fallen fast and interoperability between networks and across countries have been far easier to accomplish . by 2004 , more than one billion subscribers were added to gsm departments worldwide .
laguna beach – when considering prospects for the global economy and markets , i am grappling with the extent to which the world has collectively placed enormous bets on three fundamental outcomes : the shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; avoidance of policy errors ; and prevention of market accident . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the hapless reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on them , without some hedging , could prove exceedingly risky for both current and future generations . another , more uncertain , assumption underpinning a bet on more inclusive growth is that the us and europe are collectively free up by a large bet on three fundamental outcomes : the shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth patterns , de-emphasizing policy errors , and preventing market crashes . it also presumes that china ’s annual gdp growth slowdown will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thereby enabling the risks that the pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system should be defused gradually , even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to shift away from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . the first component of tibet , which represents a more inclusive global growth model , anticipates the continued economic recovery in the united states , with a 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage growth .
many worried that clinton ’s impeachment would harm the us presidency , but its primary impact on us presidential powers was just the opposite . the two parties enabled the independent counsel ’s statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from an almighty form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit of a generation later . the two parties enabled the independent attorney ’ statute to lapse , freeing the presidency out of a potent form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later . the two parties worried that clinton ’s impeachment process would harm the us presidency , but its primary impact on us presidential powers was just about the opposite . in the us , most americans believed that impeachment was a mistake .
most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) , which came to the forefront of the brexit campaign . though establishment parties have been criticizing the eu , for the most part , they have not lost sight of the gains from eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , both major parties backed the “ remain ” campaign , even though they have been divided internally internally . to be sure , establishment leaders have long been attempting to salvage their own skins by overturning criticism of eu leaders , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but this simply put , ideas for alternate policies have run out of touch with the eu , while causing voters to direct their resentment toward the eu itself .
to cap it all off , expansionary monetary policies , adopted by major economies , are fueling instability . and other emerging economies are unlikely to pick up the slack . weakening developing-economy incomes further are the global demand slowdown , and the crash of commodities that , as nobel laureate angus deaton has documented , has been catastrophic for much of the developing world . those challenges are being compounded by new round of financial regulation in advanced countries , which are hampering investment flows and finance to the developing world . brazil , touted in 2010 as an emerging aid player , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” brazil is now mired in an economic and political crisis .
for its part , iran looks relatively stable , at least relative to its neighbors . while north korea ’s nuclear-armed arsenal is far smaller , persistent doubt about the regime ’s sustainability makes the issue of grave concern . though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear breakout , and the government continues to insist that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about its future . pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionist jihadi rebellion , which previously attacked military bases suspected of housing ’s housing nuclear assets . in case of the regime ’s collapse , a distinct possibility would be difficult to prevent the diversion of its assets , or even the use of its weapons .
those powers should make it obvious that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , its use of access to the dollar ’s clearing system as a foreign-policy tool – would be counteracted through a coordinated course . but this has not been the us-iran deal ; it has been brokered by the six leading powers , and endorsed by the un . for the uk , especially , this may require a willingness to disagree on head-on with american foreign policy in ways that some devotees of us special relationship ” ” will find an uncomfortable reality . as for climate change , the election of the guy who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to harm america ’s business is an obvious bad thing . but global momentum toward the tackle climate change may and must be sustained .
paradoxically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by the conservatives and hard-liners , actually fits in the region , rather than the incumbent . but , given that it is in everyone ’s ’s interest to ensure that developments hew closer to the reform-oriented path , it should make sense to all that the diplomatic work with respect to iran is far from complete . to be sure , the most plausible scenario is a mix of both dynamics . that would force a reform-oriented resurgence in iran exceedingly difficult . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states also rule authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalation regional conflict .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-president , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-president , finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . the prolonged recession and economic malaise had dented the individual savings rate , while the banks no longer had the resources to provide the peace of mind to many retail investors , whose trust was severely eroded . as a result , the major recapitalization of the italian bank and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb npls was deemed useless . ten years later , italy is no longer the imagined land of prosperous banks and happy savers .
many poles are entirely wary of the church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy and are allergic to its aggressive presence in politics . kwasniewski ’s divide-and-name strategy appealed to large numbers of young and middle-class youth , but most of all to the peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s rising economy . this correlation , then , will dog kwasniewski ’s presidency . kwasniewski ’s strategy of seduction appealed to the large number of young and middle-class communists , but most of all to the peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s rising economy . thus , the man who has spoken up much about the future rode into power saddled with votes from the past .
perhaps the main risk now is that “ aid bureaucracies ” ” ” ” ” ” now trip over one another to attempt to get their hands on $ 20 billion in order to get much of their hands through meetings , expert consultations , overdue reporting , and future meetings . one , or both of these agencies , would then have an account of a few billion dollars . “ donor governments really want the results , ” they should take the money out of the hands of 30 or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two places , perhaps the most reasonable of them would be the world bank in washington , and the international finance fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . “ donor partnerships , ” for example , may become an expensive end in themselves , only delaying actual action . one or both of these agencies would then have an account of a few billion dollars .
at the new delhi summit , the brics leaders will discuss the creation of joint institutions , particularly the joint development bank , which can help mobilize savings among countries . indeed , the brics might also be dubbed the r-5 following its members ’ currencies – the actual , the ruble , the rupee , the renminbi , the renminbi , and rand . they constitute more than one-quarter of the earth ’s landmass , well above 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . after all , the brics economies are probably the single most significant source of future global growth . currently , the brics countries represent a loose , informal bloc .
the key difference for the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( more than 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rate ) . on the other hand , it needs to change the conversation to placate voters that its economic future is bright . as a result , many resent welfare recipients , as well as fear of job competition – sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . as it stands , the british , like their european counterparts elsewhere , are feeling over-taxed for spoiling public services , and are angry about the fact that their incomes have been falling for the past five years . between now and may , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling rising real incomes .
this is not to say that the obama administration has made no effort to boost employment . others , like the united states , did not , and so the unemployment rate remains stuck at about 10 % . it is subject to what milton friedman called “ “ long and variable lags . ” this is not to say that the obama administration has not tried to boost employment . indeed , some countries – such as china – have been pursuing such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the advantages .
imposing trade defenses against such goods , even as legally warranted , is likely to create problems for globalized european firms . for more sophisticated goods , the eu value-added tax ( where intangible parts of the manufacturing process are in europe ) is rather high . sectors with higher levels of human capital – in terms of electronic consumer goods – enjoy much higher levels of research and development than the shoe industry does , so that manufacturing such goods on a assembly line in a low-cost country are probably not very expensive when compared to r & d and other intangible costs . many argue that such problems are the price to pay for ensuring that firms are not engaging in anti-competitive behaviors or receiving trade-distorting subsidies . but , though the measure has worked like it , most of the us trade defenses probably are not channeled into anti-competitive business practices .
similarly , environmental laws make firms liable for their toxic wastes , and many countries , including the u.s. , have enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , companies need to pay for the harm that they cause . motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult . firms are in far better shape than consumers to judge the safety of their products ; we all benefit from the conscience of those running the firm ; and , as recent corporate scandals have made all too explicit , conscience often takes a backseat to profit . america ’s legal system is certain that under-performing firms , and especially an unsafe product , are held liable for the consequences . after all , corporations have no conscience ; it is only the conscience of those running the corporate sector ; and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too explicit , conscience often takes a backseat to earnings .
the case for acting on a massive scale to fight climate change has been made in europe , and even in china . why has there been so little debate left in the american way ? or do they deny science because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ? is it because those who oppose such debates reject climate-change science are rejecting climate-change science ? the us does not need to look a long way toward doing so .
the compromise reached at nice four years ago is momentous , because it includes , among other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and power sharing among eu institutions , which must be firmly in place before the union can admit new members . once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes , or no , to a treaty of nice . well , this is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that seek to slither around and through certain practical issues , while postponing others . forgotten which the treaty is all around them ? enlargement is the single greatest item on europe ’s agenda , and the nice treaty is its cornerstone .
with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , there is no doubt that the growth patterns that have arisen over the past half-century have been little understood and rarely ( if ever ) predicted by economists . the key point here is not only that economists have gotten so much wrong , but rather that almost no one gets things right . at the very moment of the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies started taking off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama in order to diagnose the causes of asian poverty and explain why its poverty appears ineradicable . the simultaneous pursuit of a strong consensus among economists and policymakers , which favored import substitution policies , then pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after beggaring their adherents , these policies are now entirely discredited .
on january 28 , a peaceful but unauthorized ” demonstration by opposition parties brutally repressed the police , with three presidential candidates having been under house arrest for a single day . one month before the election was held , just 64 % of citizens who registered with whom they won cast their ballot cards . but wade postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and later , by presidential decree , to june 2007 . a presidential election now appears to be fair ? two weeks ago , there were almost daily debates about the potential for a presidential election to be deferred indefinitely .
princeton , nevda – the crossroads of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize of his characterization of dna ’s structure , was in london in order to encourage his memoir , avoid dull people , and other insights from life in science . now one of our time ’s most eminent researchers has blundered far more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for describing the dna structure of 1962 , was in london in order to encourage her memoir , avoid dull people , and other insights from life in science . ( he did not indicate that men are on average more talented in these fields than women , but there is some reason for believing that men are more likely to find at both the top and bottom of the skill spectrum in those fields – that is , harvard and harvard – just only appoints people at an extreme upper end . )
by contrast , kenyan presidents traveled to china just six times over the same period , most recently in may 2017 . mugabe ’s first visit to china in 1980 came just six months after independence ; it made 13 more during his tenure ; and the high-level visits by other brics officials are all the more frequent , occurring roughly once each two years during mugabe ’s rule . state visits in the other direction have been far more unevenly distributed . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . mugabe ’s first official visit to china in 1980 , just six months after independence ; it made 13 more during his tenure ; and the high-level visit by other brics officials was even more frequent , occurring roughly once each two years during mugabe ’s rule .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . in late 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees are experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : being out of their homes for more than five years , and with no “ immediate ” prospects ” for return . yet , for young refugees missing out on an education , the crisis can also be tracked by an irreversible metric : the passage of time . of the $ 17.2 million of the world ’s 17.2 million people , which the un high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , roughly half are under the age of 18 , which means that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose out as well . school-age kids constitute the bulk of the world ’s displaced populations .
against them , one must set what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls america ’s treasury secretary , larry summers , to avoid and minimizing recessions during his years at the fed . in my opinion , they are misdemeanors ; in my opinion , they are misdemeanors . yet how serious are these policy-making crimes to which greenspan now make plead guilty ? the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two allegations : that he should have done more to stem the stock-market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done even more to stem the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . here greenspan holds his ground , and pleads not so guilty .
those worthy causes include the fight against the jihadist decapitators , to save women and girls enslaved by boko haram , to defend the middle east ’s imperiled christian and arab democrats , and of course striving for just a peace between israelis and the palestinians . the truth is that the sdgs are no more than the sinister caricature of the anti-totalitarian , anti-apartheid struggle . it is a campaign whose instigators have no aim other than discriminate , delegitimize , and vilify an israel that , in their mind , never ceased to wearing its yellow star . and it is better to know that history , if we are to be able to avoid repeating its grisliest scenes . to the activists of good faith who may have been taken in the duplicitous representations of the movement , i would say only that there are too many noble causes in need of assistance to enable oneself to be enlisted in questionable times .
indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing researchers ’ understanding of how cells develop through reprogramming dna and cells without altering their genetic structure . before that , stem cells – which may potentially be reprogrammed to evolve into replacements for lost or damaging tissue – could be brought only from early-stage embryos , a practice that has fueled ethical controversy . indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine has been awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing researchers ’ understanding of how cells develop through reprogramming dna and cells without altering their genetic structure . in may 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that almost any cellular in the body contains the full dna code has enabled it to create a tadpole through adult cloning . it is too soon to discount genetics , however , because the science of subt “ epigenetics ” – studies of mechanisms to turning our genes on and off genes – is thus changing how cell develops without altering the genetic code – is gaining
the financial costs of patrolling its waterways , and rescuing those adrift , are exorbitant . the financial costs of patrolling its waterways , and rescuing those adrift , are exorbitant . but we need not wait until the root causes of the displacement – the state ’s failure and civil war – are addressed . the mediterranean crisis can not be managed in piecemeal ways . claims could be prioritized and processed on a regular basis , with refugees arriving in europe becoming healthy and prepared to work or study .
harnessing its latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s per capita gdp soared to 9.2 % in the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , and 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economist angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 stood at $ 6,725 dollars in 1990 , amounting to 21 % of annual per capita gdp in the united states . that is roughly the equivalent of the gap that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 and south korea in 1977 , and south korea in 1977 – the four economies that are also among the world ’s 13 successful economies studied by the growth commission . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between japan and japan in 1951 and america enabled japan to realize the average annual gdp growth rate of 7.6 % of -9.2 % over the next 20 years , china ’s ’s ’s annual growth potential should be just about 8 % for the 2008-2028 . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address diverse structural challenges , and to develop its economy according to its comparative advantage .
sadly , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains essentially unknown , un-championed , and unfulfilled . for extremely low levels of cash outlying – and perhaps none at all – on balance , we could conflate nature , and thereby safeguard the foundations of our own lives and livelihoods . the signatories agreed to harmonize biological diversity , to save species and their habitats , and to deploy biological resources ( such as forests ) on a sustainable basis . in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went even further , committing to “ no significant reduction ” in the current rate of loss of biodiversity ” by 2010 . that neglect is the human tragedy , but it is only a matter of time before the cold war .
it remains to be seen if abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state agents in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , will respond the way obama expects . like john kerry , vice chair of the american senate ’s council of foreign affairs , has put it , because that peace process is not some way street ” where the onus falls entirely on israel . netanyahu also knows that the arab side ’s failures have been promoting radical zionism . it is because netanyahu is driven by a near-messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that perhaps it is amenable to a fundamental change of its attitude toward palestine , provided obama makes a visible headway in his drive to suspend iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s own view , resolving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that an existential threat paving the way for the emergence of a palestinian state .
we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january . but there was a real surprise : the new york times yielded practically identical output ( 68 % thought that it was unfair ) . just when imf economists had been predicting that a majority ( 66 % ) of those who responded that question in moscow thought it was unfair . so we decided last year to determine whether the same similarities between moscow and the new york times persists today , or whether , given the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets have become much more negative . we decided last year to see whether the same similarities between moscow and the new york times persists today , or whether , given the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets have become more negative .
like a dysfunctional family , northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out southern “ emerging-market ” economies . in the former version , the interest rate converge and default risk is nil , because , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the u.s. , the euro becomes “ local ” currency . the prognoses for each case are starkly different . in the latter version , the interest rate converge and default risks are nil , because , with the ecb backstopped its members ’ liabilities , because the us federal reserve is at odds with member states ’ needs . and how often should we hear about the sovereign restructurings of local-currency debt ?
during president barack obama ’s second term in office , rates at which vacancies in america ’s county and circuit courts have been filled have dropped to its lowest point in more than 50 years . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , rates at which vacancies in american districts and circuit courts have been filled have dropped to its lowest point in 50 years . thus , republican obstructionism in the us senate has placed other layers of federal judiciary at risk as well . that majority can erode democratic scrutiny , such as campaign-finance limits that were dealt a devastating blow by the 2010 citigroup united decision . in the us , the republicans have a good chance of producing a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which may last for decades , particularly if they win the presidency again in 2020 .
lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail his administration at least . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , while others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are clearly far less vulnerable to the kind of populist rule that has been emerging in venezuela and bolivia . at the same time , the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s ongoing post-election crisis is apparent elsewhere in latin america . lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans .
no one wants the eu to fail , owing to its citizens ’ widespread disaffection with the eu . nobody wants the eu to fail , owing to its citizens ’ widespread disaffection . there will still be time to overreact by showing strong leadership and prioritizing growth over shortsighted policies – but that the time is limited and the clock is ticking down . italy ’s next year will prove crucial , marking the end of the current political cycle and the dawn of a new one . italy ’s new government , the european parliamentary election , and , later this year , the new european commission .
one thing is clear : we can not expect the outside world to welcome our economic ambitions the way it once opened up its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic powerhouse or – in earlier decades – cheered on japan ’s growth and the so-called “ asian tigers , ” including south korea . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge now seems to be finding ways to accelerate our already steady economic growth . colombo , as china ’s economy slows and gdp growth in the developed world , remains anemic , governments throughout asia are working to hold their economies on an upward trajectory . today , we asians are witnessing , on an almost daily basis , violent political assaults on the tools and policies that have helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , free trade this year appears to be a scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues .
more than 100 adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . more than 100 adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform is calling for the central government of iraq ’s natural resources and a postponement of the looming referendum to settle the city of kirkuk ’s status . government change , too , is being made noteworthy . indeed , over the past few months , iraqis ’ sunni and shia centralists have managed to form a united parliamentary platform , which is leaving sectarian tensions behind .
so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless about politics ; they are simply waiting out for a genuine leader . yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state . political fervor , it seems , has not vanished in rousseau and danton ’s land . the french still expect more things from their rule than from an integrated european or boundless world . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french are never hopeless about politics ; they simply wait out for a genuine leader .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambitions running at an all-time low . but it need not be this way : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the harshest forces driving climate change , the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . fundamental carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem , and we need to tackle it . warsaw talks are the staging post on a route to the 2015 un climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that avoids dangerous climate change , defined as the global warming of more than two degrees centigrade . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in extreme poverty due to more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of researchers , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . likewise , the intergovernmental panel on climate change cautions that “ infrastructure trends and long-lived goods , ” which lock societies on greenhouse-gas-tailers can be difficult or extremely expensive to change . “ every year , we are already consuming about one-and-a-half of the planet ’s worth of resources , ” ” the authors explained it . and , indeed , the g20 has introduced few areas of social , environmental , or climate-related criteria to wish list ” ” ” mega-projects that each member country would submit to its summit in turkey in november . “ infrastructure choices are needed to alleviate rather than exacerbate this situation . ”
likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance on short-term interest rates . perhaps the most telling recent example of the central bank using forward guidance effectively was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the survival of the euro . while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on the us economy can not be determined without additional data , there are many arguments in its favor . the fed , for example , has committed to keeping interest rates low , at least until the us unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that arguably drove down long-term borrowing costs . that pledge alone has stabilized borrowing costs and has dramatically curtailed interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries .
but iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of his main interlocutor in the talks on his nuclear program , the sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the united states ) , and restored the iran-american diplomatic ties would shorten the transmission lines of communications and close to the 444-day chapter of 1979-1981 . this would not be an easy process , and it could well satisfy substantial iranian opposition to it . first , the us should consider setting its diplomatic relationship with iran , putting its diplomats on the ground . indeed , just the opposite response is probably – efforts to tighten sanctions further . yet , just when america adopted the “ bomb ” and talk ” attitude with serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america needs to be willing to lift sanctions and speak ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating more room for an eventual us diplomatic strategy .
other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing throughout the crickeying world . anyone watching the ipl , however tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ “ instant ” form of play , really is the american match deliberately rediscovered by indians . here was the kind of venture opening of new vistas for business , and excess lay the antidote to the hidebound mentality that produced india ’s economic stagnation earlier this year . here was the kind of venture opening up of new vistas for business , and excess lay the antidote to the hidebound mentality that produced india ’s economic stagnation . to keen observers , the ipl represented more than the sports league ; it signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india .
for example , at a whim , they may be exonerated from paying taxes , or having their columns and work made unchallengeable unchallengeable through law . this superficiality results from the fact that , although communism was a totally “ modern ” notion , modernity in romania goes only a skin deep . at the twentieth century ’s close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other high-soviesovietized societies ) looks more like a “ neo-feudal ” state than a modern society . at the whim of the state , for example , they may be exonerated from paying taxes , or having their posts and worked unchallengeable by law . state banks , the state sanctioned the public societies ( in terms of commerce unions , for example ) , act little different in romania today than the feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe .
in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority , established under yasir arafat , became yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and it did nothing to alleviate the agony of palestinian refugees . by contrast , the diplomatic means may bring about releasing an israeli soldier and placing a stop to the firing of qassam of qassam rockets from gaza into israel – a everyday occurrence that challenged the credibility of the new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . it was this failure that brought hamas to power . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements of oslo , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat as yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , to do nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian government under prime minister ehud olmert . but the fundamental problem is that until now , at every historical juncture , the palestinians have refused to accept a compromise and consequently failed nation-building .
in their minds , the hard power of the united states matters more than its soft power , and its vision of an america that is bound to lead ” of ” ” ” ” is largely unchanged . japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . otherwise , and for very different reasons , most asian elites are waiting for the growing possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . japanese elites , for their part , tend to favor continuity over change . in asia , indonesia may look “ eurocentric ” in its obama craze , but that essentially represents a anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un , and us president donald trump have rushed into a series of kindergarten insults at one another , “ “ “ rocket man ” on the suicide mission , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” said trump ; the “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” kim retorted , while threatening to cut east asia into a post-atomic wasteland . but optimism about that turn out to be tempered by cautious realism . north korea , for its part , is by far the nuclear issue of all sorts . kim reportedly is willing to denuclearize and eager to talk directly to trump . now , in an era of stunning and dramatic development , the two are likely to meet .
nepad , a new african development partnership , an organization dedicated to promoting decent and reasonable standards of economic and political development across the continent , has been at the heart of that policy . yet , despite its domestic problems and its loss of global visibility , which accompanied nelson mandela ’s retirement age , south africa remains perceived as an emerging power comparable in its status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . south africa is seeking a broader , more influential role , reinforced by its apparent standing as the regional hegemon . they have a tendency to have proactive , assertive foreign policies , and aspire to more than a middle power position and a limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . such powers seek an effective and constructive regional role , and perhaps globally , in some instances .
it aspires to join the european union , bringing the eu into its three borders , even as the us , too , wants to join a single day . indeed , turkey never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker of the regional power broker . immediately upon the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey proposed black sea economic cooperation . this year , as the american-led effort to mediate the middle east peace settlement began to falter , turkey adopted a job of mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the confrontation between syria and israel . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have been stepping forward once again to take the leadership role of the caucasus .
indeed , throughout the region , apprehension grows that once foreign troops leave , afghanistan will once again descend into a civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back into power . my fear is that the us has not seen the last either of al qaeda or the afghan taliban . like neighboring afghanistan , india would confront daunting consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as would iran , which will not sit by idly if sectarian strife and shia have become targets of a resurgent taliban . my fear is that the us has not seen the last either of al qaeda or the taliban . the west needs a departure before bloodletting begins again in earnest .
and governments need to respond to the banks ’ threats by proclaiming their willingness to allow insolvent banks to be judged accordingly . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ loans to nonfinancial firms , just as private buyers of existing , fixed-term , and savings deposits do , by reforming insolvent laws . a market economy needs to rest on the economic principle of profit and loss . a law that applies to all other firms should apply to the banks as it does to the banks . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equally to all is no market economies .
from the perspective of international investors , the banks that are “ too big to fail ” are the perfect places to park their reserves – as long as the sovereign in question remains solvent . from the perspective of international investors , the banks that are “ too big to fail ” ” are the perfect places to park their reserves – as long as the sovereign in question remains insolvent . but what do these banks do to do about finance ? that was not a good idea , because it led to a massive ( for now ) debt crisis of 1982 . but gross capital flows are from emerging-market to emerging-market equity , through large banks now implicitly backed by the us and europe .
the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat to the african development community . ” companies in south africa stagger from the loss of so many aid workers to aids . but the plagues of the transition are more than health crises ; they signify a deeper malaise . so set aside by the fact that these illnesses are infectious and can easily be widespread , or the notion that the fortunate bear some of the moral responsibility for the welfare of the poor and the sick and to consider merely the economic impact of the plagues of the transition . as a result , the world bank calls aids “ the foremost african development threat . ”
but , with turkey having so far failed to live up to the agreed terms , including overhauling its anti-terror legislation , this may not happen – an outcome that has been made all the more so by a coup attempt . that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . erdoğan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . but , with turkey having so far failed to live up to the agreed terms , including overhauling its anti-terror legislation , this may not happen – an outcome that has been made all the more so by a coup attempt . turkey insists that the visa-free travel of turkish citizens a visit to the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should be delivered this year
yet , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has steadfastly supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . just as long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied a nation-state of their own , conflict is likely to emerge . moreover , during a recent electoral campaign , netanyahu has pledged that , if re-elected , he will prevent the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ taking control of the whole region . ” yet , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank , an independent palestinian state . we should take him at his word , too .
heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender of last resort allowed the banking system to collapse . but those reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer restrictions on policymakers ’ discretionary policy , more power on boards , and a larger role for the new york fed , all allowing the federal reserve ’s system to react more rapidly and robustly robustly , in a crisis . in light of such incompetence , it is not surprising that the ensuing reforms were far-reaching . when financial stability hung in the balance of 1933 , reserve banks ’ failure to cooperate prevented effective action . it did not succeed in preventing the money supply from contracting in the early stages of the great depression .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that the us monetary-policy “ doves , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” who forecast low inflation in the united states , had gotten the better of its “ hawks , ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term treasury bonds or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) would trigger faster price growth . the message was sound but misleading , because it failed to mention why there is so little inflation in the us today . america ’s federal reserve board has pumped out trillions of dollars of reserves , but it has never had so many reserves that it produces so little monetary expansion . were the doves the right to do otherwise ? neither the hawks nor the doves ( nor anyone else ) expected .
lowering high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing up births has been shown to have reduced maternal and infant death rates . lowering high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out births has been shown to have reduced maternal and infant death rates . moreover , cutting the birth rate – which is extremely high in many lmics – would have helped lessen the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs of maternal and maternal care and immunization . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would have prevented an estimated 600,000 maternal deaths and 500,000 infant deaths annually . that is not only good news for single mothers .
meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record , including denials of elementary human rights for women , is coming under ceaseless scrutiny . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country in the above-the-fray ruler , but its son , crown prince mohammad bin salman ( who is at an enormous humanitarian cost ) currently wields much power . likewise , the saudis recoil at a barrage of criticism from their wahhabi brand of islam that is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking the struggle against its enemies . as minister of defense , mohammad has pursued saudi politics with anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while fomenting a pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at enormous humanitarian cost ) .
the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to declare an end to the longest international conflict in american history ahead of the 2020 us presidential election . at the same time , america has accomplished many of its incipient core goals . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban , as well as the impending diminution of america ’s military presence in the country , are a clear recognition of this . the us , for its part , has failed to exclude the taliban from afghanistan , ruling out the possibility that the country will once again become a haven for terrorists . the response to the first question is both yes and no .
just five months ago , we hosted the “ ppp day ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 , and the un . just five months ago , we hosted the “ ppp day ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 , and the un . the ebrd aims to encourage the training of a critical mass of practitioners from the ten countries of our region , and believes that the certifications could become nearly as respected as the qualification held by a chartered financial analyst or a member of the un project ’s project institute for development . one useful tool in this effort is “ infrascope , ” ” the benchmarking index generated by the economist intelligence task force , which evaluates the capacity of emerging-market countries across the asia-pacific region , latin american , african , eastern europe , and the former soviet-bloc of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . emerging-market officials will earn accreditation by demonstrating the power of their knowledge practically .
america ’s effort , chaired by un special envoy george mitchell , made clear that the current ruling coalition in israel is incapable of doing the bare minimum necessary for peace . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue construction of settlements in the occupied territories , in total violations of international law , and a minimum requirements for peace detailed in the “ roadmap , ” sponsored by the “ quartet ” ( the american , un , the european union , and russia ) . the results are mixed , at best , at best . palestinians have complied with all israeli and international security requirements , whereas binyamin netanyahu is an israeli government that dispenses with the two-state solution , so far has the elucidate that israel ’s ’s borders will be . the obama administration staked its reputation on getting israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on their security and borders .
that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht and spread rapidly into other east asian countries . it became broad-based emerging-economy crises of august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on external debt servicing in august 1997 , and spread quickly to other east asian countries . then contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , especially short-term investors in developed-country markets , begin withdrawing funds from other countries to cover the losses that they incurred in economies where crises originated . the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht and spread swiftly to other east asian countries . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting entire regions , or even the whole classes of emerging economies .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming a failure to contribute to economic growth . but un research makes it clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , evidence points to a robust positive relationship . over the past decade , a joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries initiative and expanded , a supplemental multilateral debt relief initiative ( fsap ) has made substantial progress on debt sustainability . sadly , despite recent efforts at boosting aid effectiveness , progress on education has been modest , at best , not least because average project financing has fallen by more than two-thirds . debt is another side of the evolving dilemma .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states federal reserve ’s primary election in 2012 – which will , alas , continue to rage later this summer – needs to be a frightening display of what americans and their leaders are unaware of foreign policy . to have even known the chinese perspective , it seems , was disqualifying for a huntsman who soon ended his candidacy . denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary election in 2012 to the 2012 us presidential election – which will , alas , continue to rage later this summer – needs to be a frightening depiction of what americans and their leaders are unaware of foreign policy . when jon huntsman , an early contender , showed some genuine intellectual heft by making just a couple of useful points of dealings with china , punctuated by a brief display of mastery of mandarin , some other candidates had responded with derision . indeed , ignorance appears to be a source of strength for trump candidates .
i helped to launch the first safe school initiative , following the boko haram abduction of the 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . i helped to launch its first safe schools initiative , following the boko haram abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , connecting schools to police stations through mobile telecoms , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – to promote safe education zones . nigeria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for the most at-risk and vulnerable children . its first set of schools has now won funding , with the former cohort of most at-risk girls relocating to governments ’ schools in safer regions .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid in madrid for the un climate change conference ( cop25 ) – will have to address more than future emissions-reduction targets . at the same time , they must address the damage to the people and livelihoods of the livelihoods that climate change is causing . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
this favorable performance has led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued robust growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and self-sustaining recovery . sadly , the projected recovery in us consumer spending has not materialized . the rise in food and energy prices outpaced that of nominal wages , causing the real median weekly earnings to decline in january , while continuing to fall in home prices drove down the wealth of the majority of us households . a one-year cut of the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to lockstep in this favorable outlook . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual pace of just about 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter of last year .
again , we are told , once again , that future labor-market entrants should be well endowed with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help trump from one automated workplace to another . in the case of education , the message calls upon employers and colleges to collaborate to develop talent “ “ pipelines ” . likewise , toyota “ built its own high-tech technician ” program to provide a pathway to company students seeking careers in the us . it emphasizes , for example , miami dade ’s own college ’s own “ animation and playing field ” programs , working with companies like pixar animation studios and google ” ” on the other hand . likewise , toyota “ has been building up its own high-tech technician program to provide a pathway to company students seeking careers . ”
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year , the un report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of those facing starvation actually rises , owing to the number of malaria cases . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , the effects of climate change are rising far more rapidly than anticipated .
québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion to that goal by 2020 , and contribute to their economies ’ growth . as a result , nearly all of basque municipalities have accepted such plans , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development . such local plans are now driving the region ’s sustainable development , with knowledge-sharing among municipalities laying the foundation for continued progress . the basque country has established a sdg 21 program , which aims to encourage the establishment of local sustainability plans across the region . meanwhile , south australia has established the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment in australia , enable a surge in renewables ’ share in power generation from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
in the 1930 ’s , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , the countries that had stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they had too little to arrest a downward spiral in output and prices . in a dire attempt to do either – anything – to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , impose “ exchange-rate dumping ” tariffs , and import quotas in order to compensate for the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly over-valued currencies . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries had suspended gold convertibility into the us and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . nor did they have been able to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by the two sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . the hostage of an impossible coalition and the settlements movement of free-lance fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leadership is under serious threat . nowadays , the clique surrounding palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process begun with the oslo agreements meant for the palestinians . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent the majority of the palestinians nor the plo through democratic means . its palestinian counterparts hardly seem to be in a better position , and they should be .
but government intervention is critical to tackle the problems facing developed-country workers today that markets can not address on their own . as policymaking becomes erratic , losing credibility and becoming choked through gridlock , growth suffers , and the chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline . the result is a vicious cycle , in which governments find it increasingly difficult to do whatever is needed . countries experiencing high levels of economic inequality often face political instability and political dysfunction . this has fueled a growing sense of hopelessness – especially among men – that manifested in rising labor-force participation , aggravated health inequalities , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london , while the arsenal was “ iranian ” . yet a shared race , or even religion , is not essential . the vestiges of these “ markings ” remain : amjax of amsterdam continues to be taunted by provincial antagonists as an “ jew ” club . the tribe can be a club , clan , or nation . and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , remain divided between religious affiliation , a celtic being a catholic , and a protestant rangers .
the world bank could help to improve its accountability to fulfill that commitment , by working with the un and national agencies to track and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators range from educational mortality , are narrowed . on the agenda ’s language , “ nobody should be left behind . ” this flies in the face of the central pledge that governments have made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries farthest from the targets will benefit the most from the fastest progress . at the same time , it is about spending more equitably . in a new imf-world bank spring meetings , save children documents a glaring gap between health risk , which is heavily skewed toward the poorest children , and the gains from public spending are often skewed in favor of better-off households .
kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor when he entered an opera house that today marks the public mourning of his death . my trip occurred in april 2002 , a rather optimistic time . my personal memory for north korea , now nearly ten years , is of a poor , depressed country . pyongyang , capital flight , was dark and barren , illuminated by the caucasus , from an official housing to an opera house , only to return to darkness behind the us . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices tripled , while electricity consumption fell by two-thirds from two decades ago .
the best way to reduce sexual violence , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to become full and equal members of societies is to break the cycle of premature marriage and childbirth . in rural india , for example , recruiters are for well-paying back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over an extended period of three years . yet there are other gender goals that must be considered . female employment has risen , and women aged 15 aged 15-21 have been 5-6 % less likely to marry , or to give birth over that period . such large-scale change is not an easy thing to accomplish ; but , as long as girls can remain in school longer and have the decent job opportunities available after graduation , they are likely to marry and bear children later .
though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that , if north korea does not make a deal , it will actually meet with libya ’s ’s fate . the “ world knows all too well that the us is neither libya nor iraq , which have met the miserable fates . ” vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan has delivered the northern powers of rage against the north as a whole : “ we are not hiding our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” choe son hui , vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening the possibility of a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington stuck to “ illegal ” and outrageous belligerence . the north has no interest in a us-directed dialogue .
in early 1985 , with america ’s current-account deficit running at $ 120 trillion , some third of today ’s levels at current prices have stopped funding for the rest of the world . with the current-account deficit now running at more than 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt has been rising fast . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner or later end up . the result has been a precipitous decline in the value of the us dollar , which has depreciated by more than 50 % against the deutschemark . after almost 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated by only a brief slowdown in 2000-2001 – the united states has amassed an enormous stock of foreign liabilities , equivalent to about 25 % of its gdp .
princeton – the united states has moved from a high of presidential elections to an all-time low of political sex scandal in one short week . indeed , both the elections and the petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of the larger part : the america that lives up to its promises . the elections have reminded many americans that the american people are a country committed to and able to make progress – a move that is moving ahead toward an ideal vision . for many non-americans , the us election brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia has been an redundant , self-inflicted wound . for many americans , the election has demonstrated what is best about the country , only to be followed by the sadly familiar process of knocking heroes off their pedestals .
indeed , one key reason for creating the international monetary fund has been to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit objective of impeding beggar-thy-neighbor policies . the first casualty would be whatever little scope remains for international policy coordination . it is true that the franc has appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the onset of the crisis in august 2007 . the second would be the world ’s international monetary system , and the international monetary system as a whole . the first casualty would be whatever small area remains for international political coordination .
likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , along with its cozying up to russia , left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . the country ’s ’s unemployment rate is currently at an all-time low , and its gdp has been growing at close to 10 % since 2013 . add to that the functioning of the welfare system and there is a clear reason why the inequality-directed outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere gained little traction in germany . the second widely cited cause of germany ’s ’s ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength . the call for björn höcke , the afd ’s de facto state leader in thuringia , for example , the “ 180-degree turn ” of ” ” ” from post-world war i traditions to atoning for nazi crimes , with afd deputy leader alexander gauland a reference to “ disposing ” germany ’s integration minister of integration “ “ turkish ” “ “ minister ” guedes , ” “ repelled ” voters . ”
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new legislation authorizing the punishment of individuals and online media in order to spread so-called fake news and disclosures that “ disrespects ” ” the state . us president donald trump is trying to follow through on the same course of action . enormous fines have been targeted by independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . his incessant branding of reporters like “ liars ” and “ enemies of men ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred media label : the lügenpresse ( lying press ) . china and turkey , both olympic-level jailers of journalists ’ journalists – which have ramped up their repression in recent years .
yet official american aid to africa amounts to only about $ 3 billion a year , and much of that cover salaries for american consultants , rather than investment in africa , is worth only about $ 3 billion a year . without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa struggles at the subsistence level . blair ’s ’s ’s africa commission , like the un millennium project , found that africa needs around $ 50 billion a year in aid from 2010 to 2015 . bush may have thought that america is doing too much to help overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minimal . america has a fair share of global gdp of about $ 15 billion a year .
initial reactions to north korea ’s ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( therefore far ) at the un security council ’s 1718 summit , which condemns the test , demanding that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and imposes a multitude of military , political , and economic sanctions . how the world responds to north korea is likely to affect the calculus of other would-be nuclear powers , including in iran . the danger now is that the us may be fast approaching approaching a tipping point . maintaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers will be far more difficult — and the repercussions of failure are far more destructive . north korea now ranks the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , indonesia , and pakistan .
peter navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks in china . peter navarro , an economics professor at irvine university , will be director of the us national business council – the new white house policy prize shop – to be established on a par with the us national security council and the national economic council . the titles of his two most recent books – the death penalty for china ( 2011 ) and the crouching tiger : what china ’s ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – – – – – speak volumes of his tabloid-level biases . ross and navarro have also been co-authors at the economic-policy position paper , published on trump ’s campaign web site , which has stretched any semblance of credibility . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme china hawks .
as a result , the clash of interest among eurozone member states has been straightforward . the ecb then declared its victory , withdrawing prematurely from qe , just when the european economy was slowing . but , because policymakers have steadily threatened to exit qe , markets have inferred that the ecb is not undertaking a permanent stimulus . in fact , eurozone inflation has become “ de-anchored ” by monetary-policy choices . the euro-dollar exchange rate therefore has barely moved ; indeed , the euro has appreciated against a basket of major currencies .
in many cases , however , such imported laws were largely ignored , selectively enforced , or adhered to only in form , rather than substance . american antitrust legislation , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by stanford at the end of world war ii , for example , resulted in only six criminal prosecutions in thirty years . american antitrust legislation , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by then-macarthur in 2006 , resulted in only six criminal prosecutions in just thirty years . in many cases , however , such imported laws were largely ignored , selectively enforced , or upheld only in form , rather than substance . experience suggests that importing laws and legal norms rarely work well .
as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and company genetics writes , “ just as newspapers ’ traditional business models are getting revenues not from their readers but from advertisers , ” personal genomic firms are seeing potential earnings not just from those of consumers themselves , but from compiled databases – likely in the form of selling access to them . there is certainly nothing wrong with this , but what looks strange is that customers effectively pay a privilege firm for donating their dna to their database . in fact , drug companies and other firms may well be keen to purchase biobanks , on which they can test their products for a differential response , according to patients ’ genetic make-up . but other firms have been charged with having a greater interest in developing a “ biobank ” “ biobank ” of samples and data , rather than with genetic testing . this new development , called for pharmacogenetics , aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more efficient therapies .
and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to reject greek bonds as collateral . european banks hold greek government debt could keep pretend that they are worth of full value . and , faced with the value of greek debt , the psychological drag on expectations and investment may linger . the question now is whether a change in the coupons – possibly coupled with an extension of maturities – would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . even with german-level interest rates unchanged , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still fairly large and far from its current account deficit today . and , faced with the value of greek debt unchanged , the psychological drag on expectations and investment can linger .
the combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals made it harder for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap , and it lay the groundwork for longer-term development . venezuela , for its part , is a case in point . its excessive fiscal and monetary expansion has meant that these economies are unstable , and that it is important to say the least . in this regard , “ neoliberal ” reforms , such as the rapid economic opening and the financial liberalization that the international monetary fund has promoted , have left economies far more vulnerable to external shock . current-account deficits have been growing , owing to frequent foreign-exchange crises .
indeed , portugal is so explicitly tuned in terms of consumer tastes that the shifts may indicate a change in a company almost instantaneous . indeed , portugal is so explicitly tuned to consumer tastes that shifts might indicate a change in a company almost instantly . nonetheless , it seems that high production values were , in fact , less popular . movies produced for sexual gratification by consumers expose the cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . thus , a “ casual ” manufacturing style has been accepted , similar to that of the worn and hunter-gatherers .
clowns have always played a role in the politics of the day . but he never aspired to the forefront of the country . former italian prime minister , silvio berlusconi , and the former thai prime minister , thaksin shinawatra , have been doing just that , and yet to do so . neither the clown , nor the tycoon , is well positioned to be a democratic leader . the question now is the worse .
one such project , the fuggerei complex in augsburg , germany , continues to provide low-rent social housing to this day . during an earlier period of urban-based dynamism , in the early sixteen-century period , the wealthy merchant households built lower-rent housing that was then allocated to the poor . so , if they are willing to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , bold solutions will have to come . eventually , towns and urban areas that drive the bulk of the new wealth creation will provoke a counter-movement . if they price out or otherwise exclude those who earn less , they would have sacrificed the openness that made them attractive in the first place .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , in the early twentieth century , did not pander to almost half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , the republic exiled from the republic of the republic . nor did pierre mendès france in the 1950s hesitate to tell the communists that they did not want their votes to support his rule . nor did pierre mendès france in the 1950s hesitate to tell the communists that they did not want their votes to support his rule . france now needs to recall these large moments in its republican tradition , and hold them up as a model for today ’s leaders . georges clémenceau , jean jaurès and raymond poincaré of the early twentieth century , did not pander to almost half the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , had exiled the republic .
that bond remains vitally important to preserving our values and our security . but , following the cold war , many assumed that its institutional embodiment – the north atlantic treaty treaty organization – would fade away . it did not , because us bonds are based not only on shared threats , but on our shared ideals . and we know that those landings have created unique bonds among our continents . that bond remains vitally important to preserving our values and our security .
is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out the formula of tibet , which recognizes its own cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? they have devised the “ one country , ” two systems ” formula for hong kong . the chinese have been so clever in so many areas , and so did the rest of the region . is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out the formula of tibet that recognizes its own cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? i hope that this issue does not derail the chinese effort to take advantage of the olympics as an opportunity to demonstrate the world that their country has again emerged as one of the world ’s leaders .
sarajevo – ever since the 2016 twin calamities of the 2016 brexit referendum in the united kingdom and us president donald trump ’s election victory , there has been widespread anxiety about the “ “ global surge ” of populism and hand-wringing over the follies of so-called outright democracy . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . in the uk , voters were tasked with responding to an overly simplistic in-or-out issue ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries handed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists alike . since then , calls to re-empower the “ gatekeepers ” – a polite way of saying that the unwashed masses should be left as far from political decision-making as they can .
his starting point marks the enormous rise in wealth among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , as well as consequent upward pressure on people , governments , and corporations to take on increasingly unsustainable levels of indebtedness . that is the message of two recent books that , taken together , tells one thing you need to be familiar with the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what can be done to avoid a repeat of them , and why those things have yet to do so . berkeley – to solve the problem – is not good enough . what is really needed is a solution , and is willing to change course if one proves not quite know as much as one had thought . the first book is the shifts and aftershocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf who starts cataloguing the major shifts setting the stage for an economic catastrophe that continues to shape the world today .
such peer networks can elevate content based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or importance . a second feature of the digital information age – a direct by-product of democratization – is information socialization . this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks , starting with the loss of journalistic norms of excellence , such as those typically enforced in established media organizations . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse is no longer based on a shared set of facts . a second feature of the digital information age – a direct by-product of democratization – is information socialization .
of course , many other factors are at work , but television-fueled social atomization should not be understated . robert putnam , a senior american scholar ’s declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is the central explanation for the decline of “ social capital , ” ” ” the trust that binds communities collectively binds communities together . moreover , heavy tv viewing has been contributing to the possibility of social fragmentation in the us . simply put , americans tend to trust each other less than they did a generation ago . the time that has been used to spend together in communities nowadays is spent on alone .
but , since the 1980 ’s , america has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts . with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , the american people continue to enjoy the dominant role of space exploration for peaceful and scientific advancement . lurching behind china ’s repeated ambitions in outer space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate military-high command circles , whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . it flatly contradicts the recurring assurances of china ’s leaders that china ’s rise will incite only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . indeed , that dangerous and irresponsible action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will become a peaceful nation once it has grown strong .
the temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything is said to reside in the genes . distinguished scientists proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed in our dna molecule , and science popularizers will join an exultant choir , arguing that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities . today , it is the turn of molecular genetics . distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed in their dna molecule , and science popularizers will join an exultant choir , arguing that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities . each time the new , powerful scientific formulation seems , it must follow an era of abusive application .
yet lebanon , too , is where one can find hope for europe ’s promise . at a time when russia and ukraine are still very much at war , policymakers , local citizens , ukrainian members , and even some russians have taken the streets of lebanon to celebrate their world-class jazz . lviv is a profoundly anti-russia and pro-european city ; but , for five days each summer , it hosts an alpha jazz festival sponsored by the russian bank . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine matters strategically to the west . around its picturesque squares , each cobblestone and ornamental façade , have borne silent witness to the bloodletting that accompanied the empires rising and fall .
obama has outsourced the specifics of his administration ’s $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to the us congress , and , no surprise , the older house barons stuffed it with pork and social engineering . several months later , just 4 % of all us funds have been spent , and the federal government is brow-beating state governments – for example , demanding that california rescind a tiny tariff cut for some unionized workers , or losing $ 7 trillion in us stimulus funds . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is the emerging feature of the us administration ) . still , palo alto is too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact on implementing and proposing policies , but tentative read indicates limited short-term benefits at large long-term expense . the us administration is exploiting the crisis atmosphere to enact a massive agenda to re-engineer an american economy , from autos and financial services to health care , energy , and income distribution .
the eu views the world as a zero-sum strategic contest , in which the us should look beyond itself alone . sadly , in a world free of shared institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of the all-out war will grow substantially . as europeans well know well , there is no way to construct a wall in the mediterranean . the eu views the world as a zero-sum strategic contest , in which the us should look beyond itself . sadly , in a world free of shared institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of all-out war will grow substantially .
the american consumer , meanwhile , benefited enormously from the falling relative prices of manufactured goods , and from knowledge from american and other western countries . this , combined with massive chinese public - and private-sector investment ( enabled by high – and , more recently , excess – savings ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . the old pattern has served both parties well over the last three decades . china ’s growth was driven by labor-intensive exports , which have made it more competitive through technology transfers and knowledge from american and other western countries . accordingly , american employment has shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting america ’s higher incomes , too .
a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities , under president donald trump , demands that europeans revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . when russia annexed crimea and annexed war in east ukraine , it breathed new lives into nato . then came trump , whose administration pulled the rug out from beneath european legs , abandoned american leadership within a rules-based international system and pursued a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist us foreign policy . this is not the first time that nato seemed to have been at its final legs . many came to the same conclusion before 2014 , when the alliance had little to focus on beyond missions in afghanistan .
the u.s. federal reserve thus will continue raising the federal funds rate from its current 2 % - to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and this will likely push the short - and long-term interest rate just as much as the u.s. dollar does . second , because the us stimulus has been badly timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , with inflation rising above target . at the same time , inflation has been rising in other key economies as well , with rising oil prices contributing additional inflationary pressures . by 2020 , the us stimulus will run out , with a modest fiscal drag pulling out of growth from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . second , because the stimulus has been badly timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , with inflation rising above target .
a heightened sand drift has been one of the effects , noted both during and after the first gulf war . this is because the desert in the region normally has a level of crust , what arabs call “ the desert skin of the desert , ” consisting of sandy and clay particles that have been baked together or sintered by heat and sun . in reality , us and british soldiers may have only themselves to blame . this is because a desert in the region routinely has a crust of crust , which arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sand and clay particles that have been baked together or sintered by the heat and sun . under crust , sandy particles are loose .
other women , like his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , supposedly had sexual relations with mafia figures just as well . a sense of the entitlement that sustained male fecklessness has steadily been steadily eroded since – a process that , like so much in american culture , has played out on tv charges . a popular series like “ good wife ” ” ” ” ” ” shows the pain and suffering of political spouses , who are expected to remain rigid upper lip and ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral doubling norms . likewise , a series of “ mad men , ” ” ” ” ” with his dashing advertising executives consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , the plumbs the emptiness , and the destructiveness of the early-1960s . this reconsideration of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s occurred in other arenas as well , as reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation from charming playboy to the dangerously compulsive predatory predatory buddor .
amazingly , manhattan chase reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 trillion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , about 2 % of the world ’s total credit and credit exposure to just one hedge fund ! when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve simply did not allow “ market forces ” to take their course . one prominent truth of the past year is that the financial market problem lie not only with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks demonstrating an uncanny ability to generate trouble through excessively risky gamblers , whether in lending to emerging markets , or in the likes of ltcm . ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial market crises . the banks that lent enormous amounts , mostly ununsecured , to ltcm , are the same ones introducing about $ 175 billion in short-term lending to the five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and then abruptly reversed gears , and yanked out of tens of billions in 1997 and 1998 .
of course , private-private-sector coordination over the last 250 years has been the essence of economics . whereas adam smith initiated the us with an optimistic belief that the invisible hand would take care of most coordination issues , in intervening periods economists have discovered all sorts of market failures , informational imperfections , and incentive problems that gave rise to rules , regulation , and other forms of government , as well as societal interference . cambridge , public-private cooperation , or coordination , is gaining a lot of attention nowadays . a plethora of centers for studying business and governmental relations have been created , with researchers producing a huge design literature and analysis and assessment of public-private partnerships . even the world economic forum was transformed by the international organization for public-private cooperation .
but , while the trump administration has consolidated america ’s economy ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the rest of the ledger is rather grim . for starters , a broad range of studies – from the work of the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu of acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson – finds that institutions and the political culture are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . the us president , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . recovery from the damaging trump administration is inflicting on american institutions and political culture in the us can take years ; if it does , the economy ’s costs could be substantial . while it is easy to become cynical ( some might say that the new agenda is simply an excuse to cut funding from existing retraining programs ) , the notion that digital platforms can massively upgrade re-education and training is a good one .
but the 2 % growth rate ( the respectable pace of an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia on its own and putin ’s personal prestige , and could endanger domestic stability as long as jobs are lost in critical manufacturing industries . most economists now seem to believe that russia can not sustain annual gdp growth at an annual rate above 2 % without another steady rise in oil prices . this would provide a platform for renewed trade , transportation , and other linkages among the former soviet countries , thereby capturing regional markets for russia ’s goods , guaranteeing russian jobs , and reestablishing russia ’s political influence in its old neighborhood . putin is perplexed by how to counter the threat posed by sluggish growth . so far , his main suggestion has been the eu ’s “ eurasian union , ” an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan .
those trials , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . but the emergence of a european banking union has not been the only important change to european financial regulation since the crisis . with national supervisors often inclined to submit to a rosy image of their countries ’ current institutions , no longer in charge , one can only hope that the assessment will be more robust than the earlier stress tests undertaken under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential horrors to become apparent before taking a takeover – in order to avoid being blamed . a few banks that have passed with flying colors have soon been forced to raise new capital .
and , again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve the situation . the growth obstacles are well known , and have existed for a long time without being removed . the key to ensuring europe ’s future as a whole , together with its social model , is more rapid growth . not all have succeeded ; but successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the key to securing europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s future ’s social-security systems and therefore its social model is faster growth .
but the utter lack of transparency has allowed russian companies , as well as their subsidiaries that are registered in third world countries , to snap up most of their new offerings . russia ’s main foreign-policy apparatus in georgian gazprom , the country ’s state-controlled gas monopoly , is the country ’s most important foreign policy tool . many state-owned firms have been privatized for ten times that amount yielded in asset sales under edvard shevardnadze ’s previous government . gazprom aims to control not only the georgian gas industry , but also the single pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgian and armenia . typical was russia ’s holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which succeeded in getting a major gold mine , and then half of the plant that produces the gold alloys .
yet , even at times when combat has become much less intensive congo suffers from war ’s indirect impact . a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that the conflict is the world ’s most lethal crisis since world war i : an estimated 5.4 million people have been killed as a result of war and its lingering impact over the past decade . a renewed struggle , coming eight months after the promising peace initiative , known as the “ goma accord , ” ” ” ” means more civilian deaths , and little chance of a normality return to the eastern region of congo . as always , major victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . today , one-quarter of one million people are currently displaced , nearly half of them on rebel-controlled territory , and nearly no access to aid .
the same might perhaps be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 years – have been characterized by a balance of power and hegemony respectively . to be sure , trade requires more than an absence of conflict . like all economic activity , it flourishes as long as property rights are revered , taxation is efficient and purposeful , credit letters are honored , tariffs , and other barriers are removed , and so on . henry kissinger once said that “ “ peace ” can be achieved only through hegemony or by a balance of power .
externships offer the transparency and accountability of educators , as well as the imbue the spirit of fearlessness in their students . for small firms , these are the avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . externships offer the transparency and accountability of educators , as well as the imbue a spirit of fearlessness in their students . when properly integrated with their education student , externships can furnish a competitive edge on college apps and campus , or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from competing hordes of top-scoring test-takers . our education system can no longer afford to wall itself out of an industry world .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now reside in per capita income of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same norm that the world bank uses to define de-stitution-level poverty in india or africa . beyond this , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is coming under threat . elite schools recruit the affluent to pay their bills and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class whose children find no place in this brave new world . finding refuge in the united states on the assumption that there is so hard that a $ 2-a-day approach to poverty is almost surely far worse than the $ 2-a-day poverty of india or africa . towns and cities that lost their factories to globalization also lost their fiscal base , finding it hard to sustain quality schools – an escape route for generations to come .
some people do not want this kind of attention , either , whether because they are already well-known personalities that seek to fend off add-on fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unknown entities that know so much about them . indeed , many online services now offer to link users with their facebook friends or linkedin links , or to recommend activities or restaurants that are based on past behaviors or contemporary locations . web startups may even want to check their users ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ profiles on the angel list database for angel investors , viewing them as a potential source of funding . web site startups may even want to check their users ’ insight into their users ’ interests , – from their music preferences to their favorite hobbesian business – to offer more personalized services . some people do n’t want this kind of attention , either , whether because they are already well-known personalities attempting to fend off fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unknown entities knowing so much about them .
french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged position is under assault – from the rise of islam and an islamist-inspired terrorist attack , as well as by legislation that has increasingly challenged trump ’s ways of life . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage has been a tipping point , whereas left-wing catholics find themselves crammed from the far right . yet fillon ’s supporters , too , rejected multiculturalism , and reacted to their status anxieties by dismissing expertise . with france becoming less catholic , and america becoming more diversified , its “ zombie ” armies are likely to decay ; but , just as trump took office and fillon ’s political ascendance showed , they can not simply be written off just yet . french politics has not been the analog of america ’s alt-right milieu , with its conspiracy theories , speak out , online trolling , and fake news that fueled trump ’s past campaign .
for better or for worse , our central banks manage the quantity and outflow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to the stock held by private banks . but the more successful libra becomes , the greater the money people will transfer from their bank accounts to their libra wallet , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy . and vice versa , when the authorities are keen to cool down the economy . after all , the banks then have more of their cash to borrow . when they are keen to stimulate economic activity , central banks are buying out of private banks ’ capital , mortgages , and deposits and other assets .
despite a long history of alliance dating back to the american-american revolution and including two world wars , france has always had a rather ambivalent attitude towards the u.s. , and it was not the first time that the controversial us security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . with the american invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low turning point . opinion polls show a similar reaction following the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war of the late 1960s and early 1970s , as well as the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980s . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that more than three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomacy tactics at the un , while french president jacques chirac felt reaffirmed in its mistrust of the sole superpower and its call for an multipolar world .
they can do so in a variety of ways , such as by investing in education , funding science and technology research , and construction of efficient infrastructure . after all , a fundamental tenet of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay for their fair share of tax revenue wherever they operate . when countries create tax regimes , which are effectively meant to steal tax revenue from others , the result is also less money on education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and action to deal with climate change . this should not be allowed to happen , and multinationals should stop adding up the issue by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are slashed . tax competition is not the way forward , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to generate such investment , especially in developing countries that , according to a 2015 report by the international monetary fund , are losing out on just over $ 200 billion a year , owing to tax avoidance by multinational corporations .
what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs coincided with bull markets . broad market returns are probably lower , with volatility episodes that are likely to become more frequent . index performance largely dictated safety choices , and asset allocation has meant little more than accumulation of stocks , bond prices , and credit . but , most likely , those days are coming to an end . what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs has coincided with bull markets .
cambridge – economics teaches that measuring the individual ’s well-being is the quantity and variety of goods it can consume . no one can deny that this kind of consumer – and market-centric vision of the economy has produced plenty of fruit . consumption options run maximized by giving firms the leeway they need to seize on new technologies , splitting the labor , economies of scale , and upward mobility . markets , rather than communities , are a unit and an object of analysis . consumption is the goal ; output is the means .
some estimates place the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . the internet now links almost half of the world ’s population , with an additional $ 4.2 billion and an additional billion of people – just as some 20 billion – predicting that it will be connected in the coming five years . fragmentation , which implies an end to the internet , represents a real threat . but further expansion is not assured , either . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be extremely expensive globally , but that is one of the possible futures futures outlined last month at the world commission ’s world governance report , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt .
likewise , much of the rapid advance in recent years in communication reflected the innovations of smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example , that were indigenous to the u.s. . that sounded like an agreeable experience , perhaps a learning experience for the young men who would otherwise be idle and unemployed . but it was not much inspiration for the future that may help to explain why roosevelt 's new deal was not likely to bring an end to america 's economic malaise . fracking 's revolution , widely viewed as originating in the u.s. , helped to drive down energy prices , eliminating america 's dependence on foreign oil . by contrast , the seeming relative strength of the american economy today may reflect some highly visible inspirations .
this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water delivery , part of the reduction of unpaid care work conducted by african women in the developing world . action proven to improve access to education includes building more secondary-school facilities , ensuring that girls are delivered with sanitation facilities in areas that study , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment and hold girls to school . mgi has identified several interventions worldwide that could easily be deployed more broadly . it will require additional investment , creating more opportunities for women , and introducing measures to help women move into more productive jobs .
specifically , the iom lacks a mechanism for evaluate whether national governments use coercion – forbidden under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees . yet , like unhcr , governance issues are destroying the iom . the other major multilateral migration agency , the iom , assists to return to migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced people to their destination , or to other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . the unhcr , because it is currently conceived , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency it claims . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , it is beholden to their interests , and does not always have the political support it needs to get the job done .
to do that , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures , such as quantitative easing ( qe ) to stimulate growth and job creation . with political gridlock blocking an adequate fiscal response , following the 2008 financial crisis , the united states congress has not delivered an annual budget , an essential component of accountable economic governance for the next five years , with central banks forced to over-stimulate economies . meanwhile , firms have become more aggressive in their efforts to phase out their tax bills , including through so-called “ inversions , ” by shifting their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities – – of income , wealth , and opportunity – that left unchecked , reinforces one , with far-reaching consequences . beyond that , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold disproportionately large shares of financial assets .
according to one opinion poll , he is betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar followers in rural areas will cast their votes on the platform of nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than on their own financial interests . all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat in populist dress , a pluto-populist one . but how long can someone be expected to endorse “ god ” and guns ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ” policies ? and even the administration ’s plan to favor the skilled over unskilled workers wo n’t necessarily reduce the number of legitimate migrants in poland . but why , then , have its foundations left it down to pursue policies that mostly harm them ?
unfortunately , february 23 is not the sole remaining relic of the red army . whereas all other large european countries have revoked military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens between 18 and 27 must serve for the next 12 months . exemptions are rooted in medical conditions and include the university ’s students and staff members of particular organizations ( such as policemen ) . another soviet military legacy is the system of obligatory conscription . france obtained its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians deem it either special or substantial ( 32 % do n’t ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a profound and profound crisis , though perhaps one with a favorable resolution . it has once been a pillar of the cultural dynamism and influence of the roman republic and empire . it is also fulminating from the charm and moderation of its climate , history , and its culture . it is the smallest northern african country , covering 163,000 square miles to be more or less than twice belgium ’s , the netherlands , switzerland , and luxembourg and contains a combined population of $ 10.5 million . the first african region to be christianized was saint augustine land and a leading source of catholic evangelism in africa .
since the failed arab spring revolutions , of which tunisia is the sole success story , citizens throughout the region have found themselves with stark choices between radical islamist regimes and the military rule . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist has to mask the culprit ’s image speaks volumes of fear that they feel independent journalists in the arab world . true , any arab spring – indeed , practically everyone – knows precisely who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . khashoggi ’s disappearance has merely deepened their anxieties . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists , who toe the official line while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power .
first , more information and transparency of complex assets , and who hold them , are necessary . first , more information and transparency of complex assets , and who hold them , are necessary . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . second , complex tools should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and be standardized in order to emerge from liquid secondary markets .
and yet it is only one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , defend themselves against non-existential threats , and hegemonic expansionism . arabs need to take their own agenda by becoming a primary power defining their future , and that of their countries . obviously , they should continue engaging with the outside world , reinforcing their strategic relationships and alliances . but they also need to become less reliant on others .
that wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it was influenced by policies accordingly across a broad spectrum of developing countries . one of the most frequently cited empirical investigations for this argument is paper timothy geithner and roh burgess using manufacturing data across indian states for a period of 1958-92 . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and even rising urban poverty , relative to the states that did not enact such regulations . that conclusion came in the name of underpinning the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation was harmful for industrial expansion , and that the way to boost output and manufacturing employment levels is to encourage more labor-market “ “ flexibility ” by repealing laws that protect workers . now a new paper by servaas storm effectively refutes yet another well-known trope in neoliberal economics : the argument that the labor market “ “ “ rigidities ” “ rigidities ” depress ” output and jobs .
britain ’s ’s ’s ’s economic prospects are increasingly dependent on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . swelling migration pressures are threatening to overwhelm any pretense of border at border controls . the environmental hazards of the winds of the winds of international trade , and it is precisely the most important source of human rights , that are precisely what is needed to turn out to be a few southern london young men . a recent political cartoon has shown british bombers from accepting a mission , with one pilot saying to the rest of the country , “ it looks a long way to bomb a small number of south london ’s young men . ” indeed , security concerns increasingly implicating foreign and domestic policies in the same way they are simultaneously .
those laws , already endorsed but not fully implemented , should serve as a catalyst for a new institutional arrangement within the country , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and the people , as well as a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . in light of this history , it is noteworthy that , in his speech the day after his victory , chávez called for a coexistence , dialogue , debate , and the way everyone else to work together for venezuela ’s well-being . he stressed that the people voted for chávez , as well as socialism , for example . those laws , already endorsed but not fully implemented , should serve as a catalyst for a new institutional arrangement within the country , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and the people , as well as a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . meanwhile , all public power bodies – all of which now follow chávez .
occasionally , however , damage is not being corrected , either . our bodies have elaborate repair systems that maintain the integrity of our genes , even at the expense of damaging agents . if the damage occurs in key genes regulating cell growth , it is possible to engineer a rise in cancer . at the same time , genes can be corrupted by environmental factors like radiation and chemicals . our bodies have elaborate repair systems that maintain the integrity of our genes , even at the expense of damaging agents .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . ithaca – the internet was once hailed as an influential democratizing power – enabled by innovative startups to compete with established firms , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but , as some of these startups have grown into the behemoths , they have turned that power on their head . far from leveling the playing field , large tech now owns it , and , rather than democratizing the us economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the problem of inequality worldwide .
for , while the us has drawn strength from the ideal of some kind of “ melting pot ” – and us president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high-water mark for diversity – americans have often shown the xenophobic mistrust of immigrants , who have drawn too close to power . above all , in the chinese case , anxiety over divided national loyalties and more than five columnists has been strong . yet one leaves wondering whether this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic exchange rate will prove powerful enough to cut back on not only the long history of distrustful interactions between america and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? above all , in announcing the new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean-energy as having been “ one of our time ” of sino-us cooperation , saying that , by “ working together , ” we can do more than [ through ] acting alone . ” in fact , particularly for the chinese , anxiety about divided national loyalties and more than one-fifth of columbia university studies has been strong .
five years of falling gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece would demonstrate a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . this also implies that , if greece were to be able to escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both in absolute terms and as a share of gdp . greece , for its part , ’s economic weakness increases its current level . its five years of declining gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments .
when i first visited india as an american administration official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining an equal status with china . on more recent visits to india , on the other hand , i found my hosts referring to the need for chinese learning . as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can collectively reshape the global order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement mark an enormous change from the hostility to which has bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons program , its defense minister referred to china , and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee referred to china as india ’s number of enemy .
because hildebrand was independently wealthy , that approach would not have worked with it easily . the heads of state of europe ’s banking authority , andrea enria , have issued new bank-friendly regulations . because hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would have not worked with it any time soon . whereas one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards at the center of the crisis , his ordering that banks raise their capital is entirely warranted , particularly at a time when the european central bank subsidizes them with a wall of three decades of near-zero liquidity . so , was he receiving the stick , rather than a carrot ?
but now , even mighty bund has started to suffer from heightened market distress . second , and partly as a result , virtually all eurozone countries are trading at a possible eurozone breakup , if not an end in the case of the euro itself . second , and in part because of the effect , virtually all eurozone countries are trading at a discount relative to german bunds . whereas a more accurate price risk was needed , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s in the last decade , deserves to be assessed as a higher default risk . it remains hard to think that the unthinkable , much less work out of detail , but any rational player now needs to come to reconsider the possibility .
that meeting took place as part of a rally , led by surkov , of the russian youth-movement activists . one quote from surkov that day is especially telling : “ “ make ready for elections , train your brains , and muscle . ” one quote from surkov that day is especially telling : “ “ make ready for an election , train your brains , and muscle . ” one can always count on our support , so that you can always count on our support . ” indeed , by coincidence , on sunday ’s young soccer fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , meeting michael mcfaul of the national security council .
this has prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to call into question the political , economic , and financial leaders in january , in order to intensify their efforts to reach a new global climate-change agreement by 2015 . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) warned that if a world sticks with “ business as usual , ” ” global temperatures can rise at an annual rate of more than 4 ° c above the 2 ° c rise that was once deemed safe . but , just as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by substantial investment in areas like smart grids , power storage , and renewables . hong kong – the sesame avenue at the kermit kermit institute ( mgi ) – once lamented that it is not an easy bein ’ ’ green . today , that sentiment is shockingly pertinent in the global economy only to become the green problem .
the organization and allocation of power at the un , the imf , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect the global equilibrium that disappeared long ago . much of the so-called third world was either recently autonomous or left colonies ; all were extremely poor . after wwii germany and japan were defeated by aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , with china mired in a civil war pitting mao ’s communists into power . the quest for a new imf managing director provides a keen reminder of how unjust today ’s international institutions are today . much of the so-called “ third world ” has been either recently autonomous or remain colonies ; all have been extremely poor .
just prior to the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made a last-minute appeal to german chancellorship angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the movement of the people into the uk . but , when immigration levels exceed the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity to absorb new entrants , severe economic and social costs can be severe , at least in the short run . the irony here is that merkel now faces the same kind of anti-migrant backlash that cameron made in her 2016 election . immigration tends to be good for an economy over the longer term , particularly if the old-age dependency ratio rises to workers . merkel has refused , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin .
such statements reduce the flow of funding to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments will renounce their predecessor ’s debts , without incurring both the legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ ’ ’ courts will not enforce debt contracts ) . an odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer in a 2010 report by the center for global development ( cgd ) , which suggested that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of odious obligations . the cgd ’s report suggests that a regime should be deemed odious if it abuses human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrating electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriating public funding . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just done . a mechanism would take the form of the declaration that the debt issued by particular governments would be odious .
ignoring constitutional demands , zardari did not transfer the executive authority to his prime minister and , instead , expect the two prime ministers that had served under him to follow through on his orders . that cleared the way for bhutto ’s return , which remained prime minister until 1996 , when she was dismissed again , by her own party of pakistan . but his confrontation with the army intensified in the years , resulting in yet another coup in 1999 , which led to eight years of military-appointed military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 1997 , it was sharif himself who reversed again . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , with the new elections bringing asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who was assassinated previous december to the presidency .
during the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate has fallen to just over 50 % , to a european level of slightly more than two children per woman , whereas per capita income has grown at an impressive annual rate of about 3 % . during the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate has fallen to just over 50 % , to a european level of slightly more than two per woman , whereas per capita income has grown at an impressive annual rate of about 3 % . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp birth declines in poor countries , which are now showing firm signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate has declined from 4.8 % annually to 2.9 per woman over the past 15 years . wealthy countries ’ shift away from subsistence economies toward sustained growth and prosperity has been conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring in the 19 th century in western europe , and during the 20 th century in east asia -- in which birth rates have fallen dramatically .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s desire to establish the pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now meeting with the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . though china still has plenty of catching up to date , its overall defense expenditure is already second only to america ’s . it has built up and launched its first aircraft carrier and launched its first aircraft carrier , with plans to launch more . likewise , both countries are on a similar path militarily . it has been developing and launched its first aircraft carrier and launched its first aircraft carrier , with plans to launch more .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its past levels of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other outside power to govern is available . indeed , a partial us withdrawal implies that an end to the enforced stability of the old middle east does not spare the sykes-picot borders . the resulting power grab the various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession attempts by national or religious minorities , and the aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . developments in syria and iraq are already suggesting as much , and the future for lebanon and jordan has become increasingly precarious . one of the few positive features of the region today is that no global power rivalries currently play out .
for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than a country of traditional growth industries . that means that the chinese economy can meet its all-important labor-absorption goals , employment , urbanization , and reduction of poverty with much slower gdp growth than before the past . in 2011 , chinese service industries generated more than 30 % more jobs per unit of output than they did in manufacturing and construction industries . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same type of labor-absorbing goal , which required 10 % growth under china ’s previous model . why , then , are services so vital to china ’s rebalancing ?
indeed , all of the eu ’s euroskeptic and nationalist forces would strive , with increasing success , turning their respective countries into a central theme in domestic political debate and electoral campaigns . the united kingdom now seems certain to hold , until 2016 , a referendum on the left in the eu , and the far-left party , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic reform , could win spain ’s general election next autumn . but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ( greece exiting the eurozone ) , ” “ brexit ” ( the uk exiting the eu ) , and the spanish elections resembles that of greece . surely , events could turn out positively , with the uk left parts of the eu , and spain opting for the status quo , or for a more moderate vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government embraced . should such a perfect storm emerge , the eu would be in serious doubt , because other member countries would consider or begin to plan its own post-eu futures .
aid to the poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised growth . and yet , in this gathering storm , it has been hard to find a single genuine accomplishment by the world ’s leaders . the doha round of climate change negotiations are already underway in circles around the world . at the same time , oil prices are already at or near historic highs , despite years of promised increase . the leading economies are entering an era of great recession .
in just a couple of short years , the pro-market reform package and the economic opening appeared to be out of step with the rest of the world . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone for policy , with frustration and insecurity at the expense of the future overshadowing overshadowing hopes . instead , they have paved the way for their defeat . in a couple of short years , mauricio macri won the presidency by promising that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur an economic upturn . frustration even afflicts the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile .
no wonder , then , that a sort of survivalist became an updated version of the radical , communal chic in the 1960 ’s . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was as early as morning in america , ” ” but now in america , it is just the morning after that . not surprisingly , this sort of survivalist became an updated version of the radical , communal chic attitude in the 1960 ’s . americans lost their beliefs in those who , in the boom times , purred , “ trust in the us . ” this off-grid drive , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there-on-your-own , solar-power , is inevitable : americans pumped full of hope that more consumption would make them happier , leaving the eu with a stockpile of debt .
chinese leaders ’ stated desire to settle territorial disputes peacefully simply means that they achieve a position powerful enough to get their course without firing a shooting . indeed , it has repeatedly shown a knack for the disaggregation of its multi-front strategy , and then pursuing each component in such a manner as to permit various pieces to fall into the eu with minimal opposition forces . this shrewdness not only keeps its opponents from balancing themselves ; it also undercuts america ’s security assurances to its allies , as well as the value of building the countervailing strategic partnership in asia . to be sure , china has been wary of avoiding any dramatic action that could become a casus belli by itself . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defensive , china casts the burden of initiating a war on an adversary , while seeking to lay the foundations – a brick – of the hegemonic middle kingdom .
los angeles has taken decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , have converted fast once the benefits are seen . these cities are learning from one another , built on good idea , and jettisoning poorer ones . fundamentally , this is the proper approach to managing systemic risk and shifting to complex , interconnected systems , and successfully managing shared resources – though so far , that has washy away the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . if successful , everyone will want to join the club in the first place . in the decades ahead , we may be able to see the global system of interconnected sustainable cities emerge .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . new york city , just a couple of years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i was meeting with chinese president xi jinping in beijing ’s great hall of human rights . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about america ’s us-imposed “ thucydides trap , ” ” ” ” ” so named for the greek historian harold wilson , who has chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens war between the two inescapable ways . no doubt , xi wanted the us to concentrate on the other four . new york city , just a couple of years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with chinese president xi jinping in beijing ’s great hall .
to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party ( ccp ) has killed millions of people , desecrated the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? things finally move in the right direction , letting it do nothing that may annoyance that the hopeful movement . chinese intellectuals are prone to dodge the issue , shrugging it off as irrelevant , and , in any case , overly noxious to contemplate . what , then , is the reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? we need to look ahead , rather than back , they say .
the global uproar triggered by the panama papers ’ 11.5 million files for the first time , apparently by computer hackers , from the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law corporation , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time to come . the files ’ ’ release has exposed the extreme , and sometimes expensive , lengths to which individuals will go to hide their assets and evade taxation . the files ’ ’ ’ ’ release has exposed both the extreme and , at times , expensive , lengths to which individuals go to hide their assets and avoid taxation . london – what do the recently leaked panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining corporation operating in guatemala – have in common ? all are instances in which powerful entities and organizations attempted to obfuscate , misjudgments , or hide behind the front .
its fiscal policies had already been out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions were agitated to push wages up to europe , despite lagging productivity . the longer-term consequences will not be savory . some will say that a fatal error has allowed greece to adopt the euro at the forefront . but that response is all too straightforward , considering that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece . that the country has been unprepared to be clear .
prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne are blamed for the eurozone crisis ; indeed , they should be blamed for their own economic illiteracy . that policy was destined to produce a financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and over-leveraged banks and depleted assets and bigger debts . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeating itself today . prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne are blaming the eurozone crisis ; indeed , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . despite austerity , this year ’s uk structural deficit has risen from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 trillion ) in cuts just one year .
paris – last month , concentrations of carbon-dioxide emissions in the atmosphere have surpassed 400 parts parts per million annually in about three million years . even within the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to about 550 ppm by the end of the century , a level that many researchers argue is already far too high to avoid dire consequences . if current trends – which fits the worst-case scenario established by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) – persists , the co2 concentration will climb above 800 ppm toward the end of this century , with devastating consequences . indeed , projections worldwide mean that 2.4-6.4 º c concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere have surpassed 400 parts per million annually for the first time in about three million years . to prevent the imposition of such risk and insecurity on future generations , the world ’s global carbon emissions – which stand at 8.5 gigatons annually – will have to be halved by 2050 .
because fish and other oceanic wildlife do not stay within national boundaries , international cooperation is vital to the world ’s oceans ’ long-term health and sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs . good science is the cornerstone of both sets of policies . the european commission has just produced a raft of reform of joint fisheries policies , which are meant to help rebuild european fisheries . but it is not enough to bring our respective houses in order . the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and making them sustainable .
today , ’s transformational health-care advances owe a lot to new genomics information , to the availability of big data to influence real-world decision-making , lower hospitalization , and lower cost . but they are only just the starting point . in this process , partnerships between the health-care industry and technology firms will become increasingly important . technologies that engage patients in their own health care , and that can more seamless adherence to medications regimes , have the potential to improve disease governance , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs . additional breakthroughs , enabled by advances in science and technology , can be expected , particularly as unconventional players enter the health-care sector .
even in tightly governed economies such as china , massive capital inflows have found their way round of controls over the past decade . moreover , establishing controls on one kind of inflow has simply led to its capture in other forms . they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically , or economically , or have sheer heft to get around the constraints . capital controls have a real cost , even if they do not default on stanch inflows . at the same time , they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically , or economically , or have sheer heft to get around limits .
and , while major central banks are planning or have already begun to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now . still , such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter investors ’ economic calculus . in october , the international monetary fund is updating its global outlook to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . nowadays , ’s markets are easy to explain in fundamental factors : earnings are increasing , inflation has been stuck at bay , and the global economy appears to be experiencing widespread , synchronized expansion . such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the calculus of pricing risk and potential returns .
skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman as saying that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ” more than once he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by a erroneous belief that , absent from deficit reduction , he may forfeit investor confidence ( the confidence fairy ” ) . what could perhaps possibly have gone wrong , or , rather , wrong ? instead , tories won an outright majority , shedding pollsters and keynesians alike alike . skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s argument that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ”
the two men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s security and are worth recapitulation of their respective arguments . the two men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s ’s security and are worth recapitulating their respective arguments . to my right sat dagan , who had just completed eight years as the head of mossad ; to my leave sat dante gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador . to my right sat dagan , who had just completed eight years as the head of mossad ; to my leave sat daap gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador . gold argued that a return to the pre-1967 archetice lines would leave israel without any regard for where those borders are drawn .
instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his notorious first step on moon ’s surface 50 years ago . if a rip van winkle economist were to awaken today after his decades-long slumber and view of only those numbers , he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and standing in lines outside soup kitchens . but such a perspective is not ideological , either . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his famous first step onto moon ’s surface 50 years ago . the notion that an american victory in the global slump may sound like that of the sardonic musing of some unreformed marxist in the danube corner of faculty parlance .
for its safety ’s sake , the country has also purchased scores of foreign offsets , including excellent thatcher ones from russia and ukraine . though it has not been planted for climate purposes , these trees have soak up carbon-dioxide emissions . from 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations increased by more than 1.4 million hectares , on average , since 1990-2002 . but rising forests have also reduced new zealand ’s co2 emissions by a comparison year in the 1990 ’s . new zealand has successfully negotiated to include this particular emissions offset in its overall figures , neatly balancing the actual rise .
in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters chose nineteenth-century nostalgia over whatever promise the twenty-first-century may hold . thus , they opted out of a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” there is much evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . berlin – europe finally appears to have been moving past its multi-year economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . for any reason , optimism always seems new .
all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration has branded select countries as evil and mostly refused to engage with them ; often , he rejected cooperating with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries , rather than influencing their actions . his administration believes that the united states should engage with other governments , even if it disagrees profoundly with its character . new york , the essential outlines of barack obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s foreign-policy approach to foreign policy , became clear in 2009 . it prefers to act with other countries to go it alone . and it has shifted america ’s foreign-policy focus from what countries are doing within their borders to how they operate beyond them .
so far , nations ’ wealth was rooted in the combustion of coal , gas , and oil . but , if the 2 ° c target takes serious action , the twenty-first century will see countries not doing so far down the path of de-carbonization ( like large parts of africa ) , or that leaves it in a timely fashion ( like india and pakistan ) able to become rich by helping societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . so far , all of this remains a utopian phenomenon . in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are a long way from being fair and efficient ; a major improvement would include the establishment of a central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emissions credits . this bank would also make sure that the emissions trading that it does not run counter to the target of remaining within the whole global budget , for example , through the full sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the start of the treaty period .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss to donald trump during the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on a public backlash against immigration , and more recently suggested that europeans should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . such solutions are not just unethical ones ; they would not bring an end to the crisis . in many countries , politicians and media have been portraying refugees as threats to their security , cultural cohesion , and public purpose . humanitarian aid alone will not work either , except as stopgap measures . former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss on donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on a public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europeans should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism .
a more systematic study of the iranian system is yet to be found . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme removed a waiting list for a kidneys in that country without giving rise to an ethical problem . since 1988 , iran has had an informal , regulated , system for purchasing kidneys . a charitable association of patients arranges a transaction for a set of prices and no one except a vendor ’s gain . a 2006 bbc tv program revealed many of its potential donors to turn away from rigid age criteria , with others obliged to visit the psychologist .
moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the newly created international monetary fund ’s functions . with the advent of the cold war , us president harry truman ’s administration and the american congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . at that point , however , the two narratives diverged . concern then became discrimination : european countries worried about it would find it easier to import from one another , but , lacking dollars , still refuse to import imports from america . to this end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of the marshall plan funds .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom , together with the us presidential race in the united states , showed , among other things , that the public ’s mistrust of global integration has been on the rise . as costa rica ’s former trade minister , i know how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to everyone . the dangers that this scenario implies should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if implemented too far , would breach the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity for decades to come . that mistrust could derail the new trade deals currently at work , preventing the future from initiating them .
that backing appeared as a component of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which employed venezuelan petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in their hope of building up regional anti-americanism . yet the recent surge in commodity prices has meant that chile ’s traditional regional powerhouses , brazil , and mexico have experienced economic booms in their own hands . chávez is the loser , not only because he gave the farc a moral endorsement ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” not terrorists , and publicly referred to uribe as an american stooge ) , but also because he believes to provide the farc with covert military assistance . the uribe-lula-lula-calderón axis seems set to keep it there . there have been serious grounds for this over the past three years to believe that latin america is headed through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s then-president rafael correa and their ringleader , chávez .
even if america ’s federal reserve keeps hiking interest rates low , lenders will not rush into making more bad mortgages . with house prices falling , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue their profligacy . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a surge in foreclosures , bypassing the economy ’s troubles on the next president , just when it is doing business with the iranian quagmire in iraq . for america today , the real question only now is whether a short , sharp downturn will occur , or a more prolonged period , but shallower , slowdown . its chances of succeeding are slim .
but , with language training and implementing something like the lisbon strategy for growth and job creation ( which aims to create an innovative , more learning economy , ” ” ” underpinned by an inclusive social and environmental policy ) , upward mobility may have intensified . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the eu as a whole . yet , more fluid labor mobility is no panacea . given risk inherent in bets for policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly valuable human capital , particularly the well-educated young , to leave regions lagging regions for those offering more and better job opportunities – could prove to be the critical tool of adjustment . but the more fluid labor mobility is no panacea .
“ it ’s not america , you need to work here ” -- is a popular joke . “ it ’s not america , you must work here ” -- is a popular joke . many new russians , working like machines 16 hours per day , seven days per week , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often discovered in asia ’s tiger economies . nowadays , most russian elites feel themselves not just european , but also 8 % of our population is moslem and inherited much of them from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and collective history . culturally we are predominantly european predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem and inherited too much from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and collective history .
this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who previously won an international address to her role in the struggle for democracy in myanmar . while suu kyi has no control of the military , which leads a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been pressed to curtail work in affected areas . other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , too , are feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . far from moving to halt this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has made matters worse .
this will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already established a timeline for just 18 months . in march , the united kingdom is likely to invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering a formal process of withdrawal from the eu . though eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , a dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their shared interests – which are rooted not just in economic interdependence , but also in the refugee crisis and a collective struggle against terrorism . the challenge will lie in reaching an agreement that ensures the well-being of the future eu-uk relationship . european politics next year will be devour by the brexit negotiations .
likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has had extremely high ” ” restrictions on religious freedoms . according to the american state department ’s own human-rights report , the curbs on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , bombings of christian churches , and the prohibition of practicing shia islam to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims abide by it . moreover , najib ’s members endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that can imply stringent limitations on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their beliefs . according to the american state department ’s own human-rights reporting , the curbs on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , the bombings of the christian church , and the ban on practices of shia islam to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims abide by it . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s administration has had extremely high ” ” restrictions on religious freedoms .
there are not many human activities , whose impact can reasonably be predicted for decades , centuries , or even millennia to come . but recent revelations about antarctica are no different . indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) reports has stated in uncharacteristically strong terms that sea levels are virtually certain to continue rising in the coming centuries or millennia . moreover , greater us emissions , the greater the seas , will continue to rise . fallout from nuclear waste is one ; human contributions to global warming via greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels are another .
african countries are especially vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and ungoverned territories in which extremist groups can germany . it is the continent in which al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , the bombing of american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram abducted 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their slumber at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . addis ababa , africa bears the brunt of the lives lost , economies have been devastated , and the relationships fractured by terrorism . violent extremism and espousing groups are threatening to turn africa into an era of development gains not only in the near term , but also for decades to come . while these attacks garner a world ’s attention , most people do not recognize that , over the last five years alone , 33,000 more people have died in terrorism-related violence in africa .
but the price has been an increasingly severe misallocation of capital , stemming from the growing portfolios of bad loans , while excessive chinese household savings have bloated real-estate bubbles . moreover , liu chi argues that the 2008 crisis has shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to the prolonged shortage of demand in the advanced countries . the huge rmb4 trillion stimulus ( cn ¥ 586 billion ) in november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises ( soes ) through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of a global recession . the analyst ricardo lo lucidly presents an image of the macro success alongside micro failures . the first problem is china ’s economy , so the surface dynamic but so rickety under-neath .
moreover , america insists on not containing china ( as it has the former soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise was facilitated by access to american markets as much as by global markets through american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization ( wto ) . on human rights , america argues that , indeed , fundamental differences exist between the two countries ’ political traditions and today ’s systems . yet , in america ’s view , this is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . xi , for his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept of “ a new type of great-power relations , ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others have entered into account is the near-inevitability of a prolonged conflict between rising powers ( china ) and established power ( america ) . for these reasons , the bilateral tariff on trust is on the rise .
the nonpartisan american congressional budget office and the us department of taxation and economic policies , among others , have made it abundantly clear that more than 80 % of the impact on us corporate taxation falls on shareholders rather than workers . and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually falls on employees , rather than on capital . yet this is simplistic at best , at best . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is rather different from competition among firms . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes are distorting behavior and impeding wealth creation .
there is little doubt that holland spends substantial amounts of money on caring for the old people . thus , european welfare states are faced with a severe dilemma . there is no doubt that holland spends substantial amounts of money on caring for the old people . doctors are not gods , but increasingly play god by refusing to apply life-saving techniques for patients and the families they want and are even willing to pay for them . europe ’s welfare states thus face a grave dilemma .
in democratic india , for example , it took more than eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport because courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its outskirts . sadly , it is far from clear that the chinese infrastructure model ’s infrastructure development can be highly exporting . the parallels with the old soviet union are striking . china ’s powerful central government overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , as well as by many years running roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . as a result , some developing countries in asia are working very differently .
the tax plan put forward in the name of the republican party , paul ryan , speaker of the us house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than those for charitable contributions and mortgage interest . but us congressional republicans may insist on paying for personal-income tax cuts by restricting deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bills . that change would raise revenues equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for a very substantial reduction in the individual tax rate . and , even with revenues to be earned , because airports could be discouraged , firms might be discouraged by the need to rely on long-term pricing agreements . it is also easy to fall into the thinking trap of tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand .
observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent charge of all : that rising poaching is endangering species like elephants and rhinos . nevertheless , in kenya , an innovative , wide-ranging conservation project is being conducted . nairobi – the african countries are often criticized for their failure to meet their environmental challenges . starting in abidmountains in central kenya , the “ rhino ark ” – originally conceived to shield the highly threatened black rhine from the ravages of poachers – is being supported by the very people they may resist : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas .
the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from a 1.5 % low of gdp in 2005 , but about half the 7.5 % average recorded in the final three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the us debt overhang remains massive . the convoluted logic behind such a strategy is rather disconcerting , not only for the u.s. , but also for the global economy . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely begun for american households . a personal-saving rate stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from a 1.5 % low in 2005 , but half the 7.5 % average recorded in the final three decades of the twentieth century .
the european currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , together with more recent chaotic demonetizations elsewhere , demonstrate that a successful transition was far from assured . more recent entries on the “ success ” side of the ledger include the advent of some periphery countries , notably spain , reducing their formerly uncompetitive unit labor costs . ecb president mario draghi deserves a summit to balance germany ’s ’s ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean need for accommodation . more recently , entries on the “ success ” side of the ledger include the advent of some periphery countries , notably spain , lowering their formerly uncompetitive unit labor costs . furthermore , the desire to be admitted to the club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , notably in central and eastern europe , which later joined the european union .
hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to be taking hold , provides a foretaste of europe , in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . it is little more than a matter of time , before economic destabilization gives rise to political instability . while germany continues to try to banish the specter of outright hyper-inflation with rigid eurozone austerity measures , the eu is facing a very real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . europe ’s ’s ’s economy is slipping into a severe slump , and in all the likelihood of protracted recessions , largely self-inflicted . if it is unlucky , the crisis will turn to its head in the early days of germany ’s federal election year , with all previous calculations likely to become moot , because , despite germans ’ frustrations with europe , voters would punish those who enabled europe to default .
the ctbt is necessary , owing to their role as a nuclear test of development and the improvement of nuclear non-proliferation . even today , thanks to a variety of sophisticated means , the us can detect very small nuclear tests in distant locations . it sets out a new standard for nuclear-arms reduction and verification of nuclear weapons . such trials are also political symbols that have little place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of weapons of mass destruction . at the same time , the treaty is a matter of fairness — equal rights and responsibilities for all its parties .
the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes have rested – probably far too many – on any one leader . the us needs leaders with ample mastery of detail , such as china ’s last premier , zhu rongji , who can not only tell us how to get the us out of business to the z , but may , in fact , take the form of a us out of something from one to b. b. after all , they seem constrained by dysfunctional political systems . their capacity to act is constrained by their political environment , and by their ability to act . or if they do exist at all , they seem constrained by dysfunctional political systems .
indeed , a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for . palestine ’s quest for statehood as part of june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely under international law . the un security council resolved in november of that year that “ “ “ “ acquisition ” of territory through war ” is unacceptable . today , palestinians are pushing for statehood to be only 22 % of the territory that was part of compulsory palestine until israel established unilaterally on areas far larger than those awarded by the un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . successive security council resolutions and international treaties have upheld that principle .
indeed , some are arguing that the inventiveness and internationalism of the world ’s networked interests and shared causes is likely to prove more resilient than one crammed into an artificial , and increasingly constraining , box of national statehood . the question for international governance today is how to provide an institutional framework and rules in a world of competing organizational structure . policymakers ’ answer is depressingly predictable : facing a resurgent russia and china this is no time to abandon us states and diplomacy to their destiny . conversely , we may find ourselves in a world whose east half are organized into powerful authoritarian state structures , with the west embracing post-state models of association . in that sense , the economic success of china or india may be those states to reject , because the middle-class political aspirations to render current arrangements dysfunctional .
many are hoping that such changes will help the ccp to become more efficient , consolidate its market role , and avoid the so-called “ middle-income ” trap that has ensnared many emerging-market countries . nonetheless , the party ’s rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will be met . indeed , there are some worrying signs that the principal architect of its reform agenda , the acclaimed free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to strip itself of vested interests . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms .
another component of any strategy must be to counter is appeals and propaganda . curtailing the flow of recruits is an even more imperative . but nothing would have an even larger impact than turkey ’s deciding that it will no longer permit itself to be a conduit and enforce the united nations security council ’s resolution 2178 declaration , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . countries can do more to facilitate the departure of individuals in iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list , for example , would help . such flows should be brought down by governments and financial institutions .
in 1996 , the enemy was communists ; in 1999-2000 , chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ bneshi ” oligarchs . medvedev himself may find some , or all of this noxious kind , but now russia has an entire industry of political manipulation that is hardly likely to go away overnight . what is needed is also a deeper understanding of the mechanics of russia ’s succession politics . the us now is the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by the “ color revolutions ” ” that it poses to russia ’s hard-won stability . in fact , political technocrats means covertly sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , setting aside fake ngo ’s and featuring patriotic ” youth movements such as nashi ( the us ) to forestall a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against the carefully scripted enemy of the enemy .
the visegrád group , the cefta , the central european initiative , has produced a thriving free-trade system and an increasing flow of investment among the region ’s countries . within a broader context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures runs steadily , if not at the desired pace . our newly-liberated societies now need to learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned a new form of economic and political language . so our task was not just to re-constitute the nation-state , but to societies too different from its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . through the learning of one another ’s languages , through cooperation on shared values , shared interests , like historical bonds , central europe demonstrated what can be accomplished .
in 1988 , conservationists chose to finance and build a electrified fence to protect the aberonautics park bordering smallholder farms . the aberp was designed to avoid intrusion into the human population and park degradation . yet it also protected farmers , whose crops were regularly devastated by marauding elephant and other wildlife . the abern mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forests and vital water-catchment areas , as well as national park , are vitally important for kenya . in 1988 , conservationists determined to finance and construct a electrified fence to protect the aberdares area of aberdare the national park bordering smallholder farms .
first , social inequality grew unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the former soviet union and , with it , a threat of an expansionist communism . the specter of revolutions drove western elites to take advantage of state power to redistribute wealth and to nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . these protests had two major causes , and the last one . first , social inequality grew unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union and , with it , the threat of an expansionist communism . but , with communism collapsing in its eurasian heartland , the west ’s rich , believing that they had no more or less to fear , pressed to roll back the welfare state , caused inequality to soar .
so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . in 1998 , the un estimated the total value of the illicit drug trade of $ 400 billion , or about 7 % of world trade organization trade . in 1998 , the un estimated the total value of the illicit drug trade of $ 400 billion , or about 7 % of global trade . the critics say that the figure is only half that – still an impressive sum . in fact , prohibition drug-enforcement imposes a tax on global trade in illicit drug drugs enforced by governments , and has been gathered by those willing to breach laws .
tatiana insisted on the launch of bam construction in 1974 , a politically correct date after which “ clean ” labor ” had been used . but the railroad ’s first partition , initiated by stalin to offer an east route that ran further away from the chinese frontier , was erected by forced labor , which included russian inmates and japanese wartime prisoners , herded along the so-called “ bamlags , ” now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were used , they were nowhere near as enthusiastic as the official accounts claim . in fact , even when the volunteers were used , they were nowhere near as enthusiastic as the official accounts indicate . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few reenchants and many deserted , before completing their term .
the m5s problem is that , owing to its new electoral law , it will need to win about 40 % of the popular vote in order to secure a full parliamentary majority . indeed , the party grouping , which benefits the most from the current electoral system , will be the only institution to forge an earlier pact with the rest of the party : the berlusconi-led center right . whereas proportional representation will determine about two-thirds of lower-house seats , one-third will be decided by first-past-the-post voting in a single member state , where m5s is likely to lose out , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities . and , with the support of some 26-29 % , it remains popular , despite its poor performance , rome ’s municipal council . as demonstrated with its 1994 election victories , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been gaining coalitions .
soon after taking office , modi ’s government announced its intention to implement a price increase in prices , even though officials have been given sure to underscore that they are simply following through on the current mandate . but , in the pre-interim budget , upa ’s government finally some bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in rail fares and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . upa ’s critics have long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated travelers and freight rates for the rail industry – unable to cover the costs of maintaining trains and tracks , far less enable expansion and improvements in services – have reflected the government ’s inability to make tough choices . upa ’s critics have long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated travelers and freight rates for the railroads , which are unable to cover the costs of maintaining trains and tracks , far less enable expansion and improvements in services , has reflected the government ’s inability to make tough choices . per india ’s ’s ’s political code , budget changes have been deferred until after an election .
many indians , particularly the poor , lack a documentary about when and where they have been born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only in the last few decades . that marks a breathtaking departure of seven decades of practice in governance of an astonishing degree of cultural diversity . coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic national register of citizens , the authorities will be able to disenfranchise any indian muslim who is unable to demonize his or her or her provenance in india . while non-muslims would , owing to a approved bill , get a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus of proving that they are indian . under the agreed bill , muslim migrants may be declared illegal .
compounding the problem , no one really understands precisely the precise links between russia and european institutions and markets . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was totally unexpected in the aftermath of the collapse of ltcm in 1998 . now , is europe today poised to cope with the similar failures of an important financial institution ? compounding the problem , no one really understands the exact bottom of the exact link between russia and european institutions and markets . having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily push europe into recession , especially given europe 's close ties to russia through trade and energy .
gdp almost tripled during the last 20 years , but , with real wages rising at less than half that rate , growth has become decoupled from the fate of ordinary citizens . south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled , the fertility rate has fallen to its fourth lowest among the advanced economies , and suicide rates are among the highest in the oecd . more than half of all middle-income households spend more each month than they earn . signs of social hardship are multiplying . south korea has become troubled , for two key reasons .
while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional arms , its capacity to fight terrorism is probably greater . police action must be merciless , even if that means more controls and surveillance . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that has allowed it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which has merely reinforced , rather than undermined , enemies of fanaticism . this may entail eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” ” ” ” ” ” tapping the telephone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous . it is precisely how we can do about the evolution of the collective security fear that we must change the equilibrium between our security and liberty .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received huge donations from paypal , which make most of its gains from high-interest rates to people with no alternative when they are desperately in need of cash . or it could simply have asked mick mulvaney , an acting white house chief of staff . ross should have read the mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half of the banks , reflecting the high credit costs of low - and middle-income families . as the us government shutdown lengthened , the stock prices of payday lenders have risen . at the same time , mulvaney devoted significant time over the last two years to the weakening of safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau previously attempted to keep some of the industry ’s worst abuses .
despite rising regional tensions , which have inspired these movements , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to lead a direct confrontation . more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependencies , promotion of democracy , and the construction of international institutions . yet the relentless march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china-chinese threat ” will require that the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , resolve their disputes in new , more creative ways if the outcome is to be avoided . the most recent signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , asean , and former politburo chairman of the central military commission on corruption charges , as well as japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” ” ” of section 9 of its constitution to authorize the country to grant military assistance to its allies . seoul – a huge military revolution is taking hold across east asia .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have witnessed over the past two years has to do with a fundamental source of market instability in the banking system , one that we can and must design from existence . in a severe financial crisis , banks are finding that the declining market value of many of their assets leaves them short of capital . they can not raise far more capital during the crisis ; so , in restoring capital adequacy , they stop making new lending and calling in their outstanding loans , thereby shedding entire economies , if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . rather , this problem is technical in nature because it is addressing them . to do that , we must advance the condition of our financial technologies .
but he maintained that islam was an indispensable part of the chechen tradition , presenting itself as a leader who fully recognized this . at the same time , kadyrov catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . yet , having enjoyed an enormous aid from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , providing it with some security . in doing so , he encouraged the code of islamic dress and built up an enormous mosque – one of the largest , if not the largest , in europe . likewise , kadyrov catered to the chechen majority ’s spiritual aspirations .
roads , airports , and communication systems also need to be revitalized if trade is to be restored . in addition , village housing needs to be delivered at a massive level of cost . the education system needs to be rebuilt nearly from scratch , and , with so many women anxious to return to teaching , a revived educational system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians gain a powerful worker-lobby . special attention should be given to the elementary school and libraries outside of cities . afghanistan poses special difficulties in reconstruction , because it is not an inclusive society .
indeed , it is the capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood by idly as the us economy imploded , is a molding occurrence in the consciousness of any american central banker . the banks ’ ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they face . indeed , it is the capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood by idly as the us economy collapsed , is a molding occurrence in the consciousness of any american central banker .
not one of his new york times commentaries during the first half of 2013 , when the “ austerian ” deficit-cutting shortfall took effect , forecast a major drop in us unemployment , or the return of economic growth to risk-off rates . by contrast , “ “ “ the catastrophic turn ” toward austerity wrecked millions of jobs and devastated many lives , ” he argued , with the american congress exposing the american public to an imminent threat of severe economic harm from short-run spending cuts . i raise all of this , because krugman took an lap period in his 2014 2014 speech on “ obama ’s recovery . ” as a result , “ full recovery ” still looks a long way off , ” ” he warned . “ and i am starting to fear that this may never happen . ”
borrowing from the open-software movement , ralsänen , and his colleagues are keen to make the idea and fundamental designs free and encourage lots of companies everywhere around the world to run it locally . yet , while a new car market has been slowing dramatically , it probably does n’t have the best time to launch a new auto company , either . a small operation in finland makes it less a company than a role model for firms that the team hopes will spring around globally . the group ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s initiative , chaired by schäuble , is the so-called “ ecars ” – now ! – now ! even as many are in trouble , it probably does n’t have the best time to launch a new automobile company , either .
the united states , with a government that can hardly be described as a weak one , bungled war in iraq , and the effects of hurricane katrina . when the criterion for effectiveness is the capacity to reach all of society ’s goals , it is likely that we will probably never find that kind of course . but my view is that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for an era of color revolutions . compared to these failures , vladimir putin ’s ’s achievements in chechnya seem to be the height of his success . consider , for example , that no one has ever devised a precise way of measuring whether and , to what extent , a government is efficient .
sadly , many african governments lack the resources to fund the programs they could build on those gains . these and other financing streams have helped african researchers to develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology learning . africa ’s leaders pooled their own science resources earlier , and they did so earlier . in 2003 , the african union and the new african development partnership ( eap ) began implementing continent-wide strategies , “ to develop and deploy science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and integrating it into the global economy . ” simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed .
london – five years after the collapse of the american investment bank of lehman brothers , the world still failed to address the fundamental cause of the ensuing financial crisis , outsize debt . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to foresee the crisis , but also believed that financial stability so long as inflation remained low and stable . and that is precisely why economic recovery has advanced much more slowly than anyone expected ( in some countries , it has not materialized at all ) . official forecasts in the spring of 2009 predicted neither a slow recovery , nor that an initial crisis , essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel a knock-on crisis in the eurozone as a whole . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to forecast the crisis , but also believed that financial stability so long as inflation was low and stable .
the big difference now is that the uk will lose its votes on the table . a third deal in phase two will center around the eu roadmap for an uk-eu relationship after 2021 . that will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration on where the two parties are hoping for an end . and , for some of those in the eu ’s “ leave ” camp , this is a route to an exit without falling off the cliff edge . for britons in the “ “ leave ” camp remain , such a transition will enable the eu to remain in all but name .
fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or gay people . the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia , as well as salafi extremists and theological moderates . to the extent that europeans are christian at any time , we view religion as an equal of an individual ’s relationship with his or her god ; muslims view it as an organizing social principle . muslims find it hard to grasp how we can trust our societies to be civilized when both pornography and drunkenness are openly displayed . al qaeda ’s ’s ’s agenda is as much about creating a new islamist caliphate as it aims to drive jihad against the west .
with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; in europe , it has been forced to step down toward a frontier with which it has expanded westward since peter the great , ultimately to the elbe and thuringia . so , why has the eu ’s association agreement failed to offer ukraine anything comparable to what russia has been offering ? the answer can be found in the relationship between europe and russia . indeed , his 2010 election marked ukraine ’s end of its pro-european orange revolution , which defeated its effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and hold ukraine into the russian camp . yanukovych was always the kremlin ’s ally , and it was not .
essentially , it is a productive change that i call the economic dynamism of the economy . what is needed for a high level of performance , for example , for a high level of output ? what is needed for a high degree of output ? the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism was linked to weak economic performance , especially low levels of prosperity . for workers to develop , they need to be imbedded in stimulating occupations , with new problems coming out , harder tasks for which they can be mastered , added powers to strive for it .
and , third , laws aimed at protecting private information should be reevaluated in order to ensure that companies are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . first , because most “ technology-based ” monopoly power does not violate current antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken us monopolies . second , the standard view in terms of business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to account for it firms ’ monopoly power . above all , the public needs to develop a deeper understanding of its economic effects , particularly how the technologies to improve the lives of so many are enriching the lives of so few . new public-interest concepts are also needed to regulate new public information channels , such as social networks .
as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , its intervention nowadays demands nothing more than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counterterrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection with the ongoing un deliberations . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with recent operations justified by their inachievability rather than merit . a military operation may also be mentioned in the un security council , but it is only after the fact that the council ’s ’s ’s decision can no longer be dramatically affected by events on the ground . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays requires nothing more than a unilateral decree on humanitarian or counterterrorism goals , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection to the ongoing un deliberations . to see how that shift has taken place is to see why , more often than not , such intervention has failed to attain its goals .
both coase and bemoan the neglect of their occupation of the profession ’s patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith ’s administration that has appreciated grand and unifying theories of the political economy and moral philosophy . the simplicity and the elegance of micro and macro models seem to have driven the profession from theory toward ideology , placing it out of touch with the real economy . he argues that economists have become blind to a catastrophic macro failure , because they mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models for truth . yet both models are unable to describe or analyze actual behavior by key market players . the contemporary obsession with the reductionist and mechanical models appears to have driven the profession from theory toward ideology , placing it outside touch with the real economy .
after all , such no-strings-directed databases are not only facilitating sharing ; they permit stealing . perhaps the most prominent forum for such discussions is the conference of parties to the convention on biological diversity , a major treaty that regulates access to biodiversity . the next meeting ( cop13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico in early december . participants in the swedish 13 need to focus on the need to protect resource providers ’ rights . perhaps the most prominent forum on such discussions is the conference of parties to the convention on biological diversity , a major treaty that regulates access to biodiversity .
if america can grow as rapidly as it is now , that is extremely good news for other , less-developed economies , especially given that one powerful effect on the ongoing technology revolutions in computers and communications technology ( ict ) is to make it much easier to participate in the global distribution of jobs that are now centered on the u.s. . but , to everyone but bush -- and those left unemployed by the demand lag – it represents an exceptional opportunity . the spectacular productivity boosts which were placed within america 's grasp will ultimately result in accelerating growth of actual earnings and real wages if only american policymakers are resisting the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging measures to “ safeguard ” output and jobs . as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the hardest jobs in assuring growth , because it needs to generate – not just copy and adapt – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations . demand growth at a pace that has been seen in any previous decade or a half would suddenly be desperate , and bush is blamed ( with some fairness ) on the slack labor market that resulted .
at a time of unprecedented global challenges , including climate change and high levels of inequality , that must include the use of platform leadership ’s unprecedented power resources to catalyze global-level solutions . rather than focus on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farmed operations , as companies have done in the past , they are doing , and similar firms like impossible foods are working to help reduce global meat use , a key driver of climate change . this propelling the latest shift in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but on becoming wiser about what to scale . earlier this year , a artificial-meat producer beyond the meat field celebrated the rapturous stock-market debut . this propelling the latest shift in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale .
ontario – earlier this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s 11th ministerial conference . with the united states having historically led the world toward trade liberalization , which is now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set in motion , in contrast to any other way . this time , however , the outcome may prove even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach an even token agreement that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign . some sort of agreement is usually delivered , but only right now , and its language is often murky . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never straightforward .
similar norms exist in poland , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help to advance nationalistic narratives that may prove very handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . for one thing , the pis accrued substantial electoral support , owing partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . similar norms exist in poland , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . poland introduced such a law in 1998 .
there seems little appetite for proposals to vary capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . instead , the reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for leading us banks , as well as forward funding of deposit insurance by a special benefit levy on banks . this would have allowed equity buffers to be created in good years , which might then be drawn down in bad years . as is frequently pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there will be plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ” admittedly , every proposal is to limit the magnitude of “ risky ” banking sectors , particularly with respect to the global economy with freer capital mobility .
that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over intellectual property ( ip ) . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is by no means assured . and here obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to his pressure from the powerful american pharmaceutical lobby . new york – which america ’s patient protection and the affordable care act ( obamacare ) , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform act , succeeded in expanding insurance coverage to the millions of americans who would not otherwise have had it . and , contrary to his critics ’ own warnings , trump has not pushed up health-care costs ; indeed , there is some hope that the costs curve may finally prove downward .
slashing the state sector abruptly , anticipating that it will achieve transformation via austerity , is not the way forward . likewise , slashing fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to “ zombie ” firms would free up fiscal capacity , and allow resources to be redirected toward new industries that facilitate service and city jobs ; but that would exacerbate , at least at the very least , ’s demand shortfall . when both old and new industries hit the slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline , and the structural adjustment will stall . robust aggregate demand is always essential to a successful transformation , but the transition is needed . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have shown conclusively that the transition economies requires strong aggregate demand to pull resources into new industries .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . london – how radically will digital currencies change our methods of exchange , and how we think about money ?
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process is on the verge of ending failure . while achieving substantive settlements has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states incapable of maintaining even the façade of an all-embracing “ peace process ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” – which has been all process and no peace . the negotiations are failing on several grounds , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of land occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community – including by the american people . and that may not have been so much bad as it is . while achieving substantive settlements has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states incapable of preserving even the façade of an “ peace process ” ” ” ” ” ”
vasily aleksanyan was the executive vice president of yukos , and , as an attorney general , defending khodorkovsky and his partner , a platon lebedev , following their arrest in 2003 . in december 2008 , the moscow city court passed its release on to bail of $ 50 million worth of rubles ( about $ 1,775,000 at that time ) . by then , he was disbarred , and was himself under house arrest in april 2006 . by this time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for whom treatment had been withheld . vasily aleksanyan had been the executive vice president of yukos and , as an attorney general , defending khodorkovsky and his partner , a platon lebedev after his arrest in 2003 .
and it should add the commitment that china will execute through the paris agreement in ways that are “ “ consistent ” with its own constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . specifically , china should remove america ’s tariff provisions in the aftermath of an agreement , and unilaterally re-imposing tariffs if the u.s. concludes that china is not honoring the deal . that timeline requires that both sides begin to take symbolic and substantive steps at once . as a first step , china should propose an agreement that uses the same text to the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” moreover , they need it to happen by next year to avoid further damage from large tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 .
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what it is by marching the well-worn path of industrialization . peasants have become factory workers , a process underpinning not only an unprecedented surge in economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in social and political organization . the labor movement has led to mass politics and , ultimately , into political democracy itself . over time , manufacturing has ceded its place to the service sector . progression to manufacturing industries – in the form of textiles , steel , automobiles – has emerged from the ashes of conventional craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
and , of course , that average is not included in the fukushima disaster . indeed , when compared to other energy sources , the nuclear power ranks above oil , coal , and natural gas systems in fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . another nuclear-power accident index – which includes the costs beyond death and property damage , for example , injured or irradiated workers , and malfunctions that did not result from shutdowns or leaks – documented 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 . there have been 57 accidents since the 1986 chernobyl disaster . while only a few involved fatalities , those that have collectively killed more people than have been killed in the commercial american airline accident since 1982 .
russia is closer to berlin , or even paris , than washington or new york . contrary to some of her predecessors as german chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany in east germany , is wary about russia ’s strategic designs . this may no longer be so easy as soon as the us sees itself as its reliable protector and fear of china turning into a panic . there is little doubt that russia and china will benefit , at least in the short run , in the short run , from america ’s ’s leadership abdication . some people are not overly bothered by this .
for uribe and his opposition allies , a key objection to the agreement concerns how it addresses the question of a transitional justice system . the deal also included an historic land-reform agenda . and that would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including issues affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gays , and hundreds of millions of internally displaced persons by over a half-century of struggle . yet , when a deal is negotiated well , the end result generates substantially greater benefits than costs . for uribe and his opposition allies , a key objection to the agreement concerns how it addresses the question of a transitional justice system .
the u.s. , for example , was wrong to invade iraq in 2003 , but it was right to join the struggle against isis and to rescue the yazidis from the tiananmen massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to cut the city down to the dust . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because the forces opposed assad lacked the popular support , and the americans were unprepared to help them win that support . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , because they were effective combatants with strong support from their own peoples ; and they probably would not have survived under the isis caliphate . elsewhere , it is right to strengthen south korea and japan ’s defenses , but manifestly wrong to risk a nuclear war .
the individual became the ultimate agent of change , an individual conceived as the kind of rational actor that populates the economists ’ models . as communism was discarded , so was the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized . the trouble began during the cold war ’s end , when the breakdown of the bankrupt communist ideology was complacently interpreted as the triumph of the market . indeed , economics was placed in a pedestal and enshrined by institutions like central banks and competition authorities that were intentionally separated and made independent from politics . such an individual ’s identity derives not from class interests or from other sociological characteristics , but from that market logic that dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as a producer , consumer , or voter .
the rest of the world – and , above all , the european union – should take note . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) – the absolute majority that it needs – to amend the constitution . indeed , whereas some grievances about transparency over the course of the campaign process appeared , it prevailed for democracy , with an astounding 86 % of eligible voters turning out to be cast in parliament for the first time ever , with representation throughout the country , rather than only in kurd-majority areas . moreover , by giving peoples the democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country with its long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the votes , they allowed the first-time party to enter parliament , with representation nationwide , rather than only in kurd-majority areas . madrid ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact .
germany will need to come to terms with the consequences of that refugee tide for years to come . to distribute the burden more equitably , germany has tried to have a european quota system instituted to allocate its applicants among eu member countries . yet germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as a form of moral imperialism . frequently , arab families are sending their minors to germany in the not-unreasonable hope that they will secure the right of other family members to follow later . if an app is successful , a refugee has the freedom to bring together its or her family members just as well .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race needs an understanding that national opinion polls do not provide an entirely accurate picture of how an election might turn out . every state is awarded a certain amount of electoral college votes , depending on the size of its population . every state is awarded a certain number of electoral college votes , depending on the size of its population . washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race – needs an understanding that national opinion polls offer no precise picture of how an election might turn out . in nearly every state , the candidate who wins the 50.1 % or so popular votes are handed out to 100 % of the popular vote .
new york – the prospect that america ’s federal reserve will begin exiting the zero bound on policy later this year has fueled growing fears of renewed volatility for emerging economies ’ currencies , bond yields , and equities markets . but , though the prospect of the fed raising interest rates seems likely to generate significant turbulence in the emerging world ’s financial markets , the risks of outright crises and distress are more limited . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past few years , they will now confront a rise in the true local-currency value of those debts , while rising us rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby raising debt-service costs further . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , and the ensuing likely surge in the value of the us dollar , may fear that they wreak havoc among emerging markets among emerging markets ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 its 2013 quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy came to an end , the ensuing “ taper tantrum ” ” sent shockwaves through many emerging countries ’ financial markets and economies .
on the other hand , despite being right about iraq , chirac has become isolated , insulation that has grown because he , too , has failed to reestablish satisfactory relations with president bush . chirac has compounded his mistakes over iraq in his attitude toward a new european commission . on the other hand , despite being right about iraq , chirac has become isolated , the isolation that has grown because he , too , has failed to reestablish satisfactory relations with president bush . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france was powerfully represented , with pascal lamy clinging to a commercial portfolio . indeed , under chirac , france seems increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views and the universalist of its model – a very charge so often levelled against george w. bush ’s america .
urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation for all . and the expanding global population – which is set to reach just over 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water-stressed resources still further . first , drastic improvements in water-related services , including delivery and sanitation facilities , irrigation and harvests , power , and environmental facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . water-intensive food and power generation – among others – relies on uninterrupted supplies . governments should take the lead in ensuring careful management and sustainable use of scarce water resources .
while iran ’s leaders often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . four factors have turned the oil embargo into a particularly unbearable one today . first , prohibiting the flow of oil exports is all the more painful as world oil prices rise . yet iran faced similar economic hardship earlier in the 1980 ’s , when its oil exports plummeted substantially amid the country ’s ’s eight-year war against iraq , and , in 1986-2000 , global oil prices were extraordinarily low and dealt with them relatively well . ahmadinejad benefited from a massive oil-price spike , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear position , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political environment changes radically positive . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat , and it will have only a boost to iran ’s nuclear claim . not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities , while the party of the npt , been saying ; it also has placed israel on a high scale on its agenda . india and pakistan , in contrast to israel , which has been committed to a strategy of nuclear opacity , both perceive themselves as nuclear-armed states and wants the world to accept that status moreover , israel has never tested its nuclear weapons , and accepted its nuclear suppliers group ( npt ) guidelines , which seek to stem through its control of nuclear exports . across-the-board nuclear equality may , after all , boost only to iran ’s nuclear claim .
protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been picked up flat-footed . but no one knows whether china ’s ’s ’s baby step is the beginning of something far bigger , because china ’s authorities are signaling one day , denying another another . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( permit the yuan to rise to 2 % against the us dollar ) is that nobody can tell when or what will happen next . whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest first modest step toward floating its currency , one must admire its strategic brilliance . they want to keep bathing in the press coverage ; but , if push pushes their china-bashing too far and too fast , protectionists will still be viewed as hindering a delicate behind-the-scenes negotiation .
on the other hand , his intention will emerge as a reliable , unsurprising partner . one of his close political allies recently proclaimed that should the un security council approve military intervention in syria , france “ could well envision that effort . ” and , here , obama , in particular , will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing about sweeping change . hollande has promoted military intervention in libya in 2011 and joined denuclearization of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close political allies recently declared that should the un security council approve military intervention in syria , france “ could envision this effort . ”
deflation -- a steady ongoing slump in prices -- gave firms and consumers a powerful incentive to cut spending and hoard cash . it reduced firms and banks ' ability to service their debt , potentially triggering a chain of great bankruptcies that shatter trust in the financial system , provide additional incentives to hoard it . but , if that is an issue resolved more than fifty years ago , why is it haunting the us now ? hence the keynesian solution : using monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanding government spending and lowering taxes ) to keep the economy out of the precipice where deflation becomes possible . deflation hence accounts for the keynesian approach : using monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanding government expenditures and lowering taxes ) to keep the economy out of the ever approaching precipice where deflation becomes possible .
the united nations , with its support from countries like sweden and working through the coordinated humanitarian-response system , covering unicef , is alleviating suffering suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises are testing that system , as never before . the quantity and complexity of cascading crises , however , are testing that system , as never before . millions of babies are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are under threat from exploitation , misuse , and , worse . and , of the 50 million children living beyond their own countries , or have been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , posing new threats to their lives and well-being .
given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to place a bar high , putting pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . un secretary-general annan next month should be just such a moment , with countries committing to take action on their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set a bar high , putting pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support the process .
the rejection of the european union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s constitutional treaty by the french and dutch voters was by all the evidence that more rejection of unregulated globalization than rejected it in europe . but the realignment of the very rich , advanced countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists such as milton friedman , which started around 1970 ’s , broke with all that . widespread instability in social relations , most important , but not just in the democratic world , is slowly becoming intolerable to an increasing segment of the population in many advanced countries , and not only in europe . after world war ii , capitalism could have been reinvented by the aftermath of three necessary types of regulation : social security , serving as a principal stabilizer , at least in advanced countries ; the keynesian tools to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and the universal high-wage policies geared toward stimulating universal consumption , without which the genius of crony capitalism – mass production – does not work . and there can not be a stable economic order for itself , at least not in a democratic country , – at least not in a democratic country – – if electorates rejected its underpinnings .
at the same time , in an age of internet labels and fake news , the world today can look somewhat unmoored from history . inflation targeting has other effects , too , which seem more to be on central bankers ’ minds . in his influential 1998 book inflation-targeting book , ben bernanke and his co-authors counseled policymakers in announcing a target for inflation , because it communicates the central bank ’s ’s preworth , ” ” a measure that would have done little to reduce uncertainty . the announced rate should be substantially positive , they wrote , because , if officials tried to get it near zero , any mistake might result from deflation , which might “ endanger ” the financial system and precipitate an economic contraction . that may have created a sense of real risk , and it is important to avoid the financial crisis .
and it has deployed diverse methods – including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition for joint ventures with chinese partners , evasion of us export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from america and other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations . with its investments in such dual-use technology , china seeks more than competing commercially with the us ; it is also pushing for more military and geopolitical power . berkeley – with its ambitious made in made in china 2025 strategy – china has made clear its objective of securing global economic leadership in high-tech industries . that places it in direct competition with the united states , which is leading today in those industries , in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial and military applications .
the berlin wall fell , bringing german reunification , and yugoslavia into disarray . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” delivered its way to the czech republic and slovakia , which – along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored itself firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . today , a trade war in the us would hurt all economies , while those in the us have been clinging to it . the berlin wall came down , bringing about german reunification , and yugoslavia ’s disintegration . but america ’s – which is relatively less reliant on foreign markets – possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than any other country – would have done better than most others in a contracting global economy .
the treaty would promote stability in the iranian economy , helping to stabilize europe , the us currency . it would increase trust in iran , allowing the us to increase its existing inflows of inward foreign direct investment . most important , the us fiscal deal promises to provide responsible europe-wide budgeting budgeting . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , because we are working our way out of a bailout program with the troika of the troika ( the european commission , the ecb , the ecb , the international monetary fund , and the international monetary fund ) and a return to us markets . likewise , ratification would give the us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) ( esm ) should we ever need .
after exploring this issue with legislators in a number of countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many have no full grasp of the myriad issues that need to be considered . over the short term , young companies should view ethics not as a marketing gimmick , but as a core concern . it is a difficult subject to action , and it has been hampered by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . in europe , legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . all organizations should be investing in ethics officers , or some sort of review process involving those who can evaluate all of the implications of a great-sounding idea .
the youngsters at shahbag are predominantly urban , well-educated , and the middle class ; hifazat derives its support mostly from the rural poor . but all too often , the clichés become established as a result of significant public support . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathizers are closer to the shahbag protesters than to the hifazat anti-protesters . traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but it must navigate a difficult path , because both point of view hold significant public support .
even the staunchest defenders of the existing monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone . true , the true bombshell has been the abrupt realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system – not , at some later date , but right now . with its potential to mobilize more than two billion or more of its monthly active users , facebook could change that . now that the us has ditched the gauntlet , governments should take advantage of an opportunity to advance the shape of the digital currency that serves the public good . even the staunchest defenders of the existing monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone .
before becoming soviet leader in 1985 , relations among cold war-era superpowers hit rock bottom . why has the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at the fukushima daiichi in japan not elicited a similar reaction today ? economic constraints and the chernobyl catastrophe have helped spur us action . nonetheless , reagan and i have been able to create a reservoir of constructive spirit , through constant outreach and face-to-face interactions . what appears to be missing today are leaders with boldness and visions to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of the peaceful global order .
german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same accusation in the current german federal election campaign . throughout europe , it is not just british prime minister tony blair , who is blamed for “ presidentialism ” nowadays . indeed , prime minister silvio berlusconi , indeed , does not even enjoy the appearance of being labeled as prime minister . throughout europe , it is not just british prime minister tony blair , who is blamed for “ presidentialism ” nowadays . it offers a moment to examine why they are so enfeebled .
as long as capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets held by national governments , and are easily irreversible , the international economy will be hostage to the spectacular booms and bust cycles . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reform in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will result in complacency over short-term capital inflows , increasing rather than then decreasing systemic risk . the tapering of national autonomy to formulate a development strategy is the cost to which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward . second , it is doubtful that a new policy agenda will make the international financial system far more secure . first , a new set of external disciplines come hand-in-hand with some special , neoliberal economic-development models that remain untested , and will foreclose development strategies that work in the past and others that might work in the future .
and all of these clichés have been reproduced under the coverage of barra ’s appointment at gm . cnn , for example , covered up its story by referring to the barra ’s “ knack for crossing the corporate ladder , ” a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that never applies to a man at the very top , for whom , presumably , the hard work , talent , ambition , and dedication constitutes more than an extra amount of “ knack . ” many news stories of female ceos and other high-achieving women are enamored with a set of reliable clichés : being lucked into their new roles ( and therefore not receiving them ) ; inherited them from male relatives , or spouses ( and thus are not actually holding the reins of power ) ; or it will not be there for a long time to come . those clichés not only undermine women ’s reputations ; in ceos ’ case , too , they are also reducing the value to their companies . if all else does fail , coverage concentrates so narrowly over gender that a woman has become weakened .
but the country ’s repressive spin over the last decade has nonetheless been disappointing . few observers have expected that china will suddenly transform itself into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . the dynasties are coming and going , but , in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding . state-owned companies remain favored , books are burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in any domain of chinese life . how long this will last is anyone ’s guess .
more recently , elections in europe 's postcommunist countries have brought groups into power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to compare hamas with any such political force . nevertheless , one has to wonder about winning a winning movement with quite a few elected members in israeli prisons and others who are unlikely to obtain permission from entering a country in which they have been elected to prevent a new parliament from functioning in due course . first , elections rarely tackle the fundamental issues of the day . all of this tells us three things as a matter of democracy .
that is why lugovoi is tasked with his autograph . ” but only one such “ patriot ” has been accorded to the honor of receiving that act . the social consciousness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who loathe russia can jangle itself within the breast of ordinary russians with no slightest dissonance at all . we are evidently faced with the mystique of russians ’ thinking that has proven to be unfathomable to others , which is thus unyielding on every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians have written at length . this should not , of course , be taken to mean that patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s ’s ’s achievement admit of the british accusation .
and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to another , it creates persistent inequality traps . moreover , given that inequality largely begins in childhood , governments need to invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early-childhood education . · eliminate barriers to opportunity , governments need to tackle the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize disadvantages . · such investment will require the additional domestic resources that are needed . only by promoting early-childhoods ’ creation can we ensure that inequalities in one generation are not passed on to the next .
other reforms , particularly political reform , will be hotly contested . greece has slashed its spending by a larger amount , relative to gdp than any country in europe since world war ii . italy , for its part , has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions . spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the onset of the crisis . other reforms , in particular , will be hotly contested .
but the aftershocks linger : household-debt loads still amounted to 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and personal-saving rates have averaged only about 3.9 % over the past year ( versus 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures have averaged only about 0.8 % in the last five years , the most severe and protracted slowdown in us consumer demand growth since the post-world war ii era . instead , they have been cutting back on spending , which is what they have undertaken . two asset bubbles and credit against which american families have borrowed in a fair way , have long since burst . understandably , gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption spending have averaged only about 0.8 % annually over the last five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in us consumer demand growth during the post-world war ii years .
argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even as the shift toward autarky undermined growth , causing the country to lose its status among the world ’s richest people . though his motivations , at least partly , may have been a longing for social justice , perón , in effect , bribing recipients to endorse his own rise to power and wealth levels . perón ’s administration of nationalized banks and railroads , raised the minimum wage and improved living standards , cut national debt ( for some time , at least ) , and revived the economy . with its magnificent , and far from full wife , a “ womanhood ” “ woman of the people ” at his party , perón was allowed to appoint voters in 1946 to whom he would fundamentally transform the country . he was as good a matter of his word .
the cap will likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . it is not hard to imagine the next us administration whenever it starts – perceiving the cap as an impediment to faster economic growth . eventually , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic , all the more so against a backdrop of the political tumult set to continue for the foreseeable future .
prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering stock-market rout . whereas experts spent the past two years shoring up this thesis quietly to restore an older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for earnings , and therefore good for equities . here is one message from markets worth the pondering , even for non-investor investors : political trust may come at an all-time low ebb in europe ; firms and consumers may be shell-shocked by the latest recession and dismal future ; but judging by stock-market behavior the years ahead are more likely to resemble the stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s than the crisis-ridden decades of 1973 to 1989 . part of this can be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between share market prices and economic growth . a peculiar conventional wisdom developed during the great recession and 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad news for share prices .
elsewhere , the nigerian federation of chambers of commerce , industry , mine , and agriculture ( naccima ) have used its agenda over a few years to coordinate economic reform . that task , in 1999 , assumed critical importance in the aftermath of the country ’s opening to democracy . a legislative advisory program is another tool business can use to influence public policy . a legislative advisory program is another tool business can use to influence public policies . elsewhere , the nigerian federation of chambers of commerce , industry , mine , and agricultural projects ( naccima ) has used its agenda over a few years to coordinate economic reform .
now the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) to indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds . its medicine did little to rescue the economy , and the rest of the world . the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve a positive gdp growth of 1998 ( 3 % in thailand ’s case , for example ) . the imf now acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points .
nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an attempt at a distraction ; he also sends the message that a domestic-policy impasse is n’t his fault . so , too , expect plenty of foreign-policy news in the months ahead . the obama administration knows the iron law of american policy , “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” as it does anyone else . the obama administration has performed far better on foreign policy than on domestic policy , which is all the more surprising given the soft hand that it has been dealing : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right .
at the same time , europeans will see the dismantling of their welfare states and social-security systems ; cherished “ european models ” of pensions , health care , and the threat of unemployment to be replaced by the despised and widely feared “ american model . ” this is not to say , because europeans crave america ’s rigors less cosseted social conditions , but because it is the one way european governments will be able to stay afloat financially . the root cause of all of these developments is europe ’s ’s ’s own population , shrinkage . but it is only one aspect of europe ’s urgent need to import people from africa and asia . the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have been debating for a decade or more is now exploding .
they feel validated by their beliefs that , for most western governments , outrage at iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of doing business . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short periods of military intervention are imperfect , and to be remotely efficient , requires some degree of international solidarity , which is generated only in extraordinary circumstances . the trouble is this : in most cases , it will happen . should a rogue state be allowed to get away with its provocations ? and they are watching glee over the way that european , japanese , and american , rather than acting together , display the weakness of france .
london : a mistaken understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . this largely explains why germany is routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy . european policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness , ” ” ” and , genuinely , seem to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . but economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is being driven by productivity growth , rather than by their capacity to capture an increasing share of global markets . while imports must , of course , fund themselves with exports , the shift toward trade competitiveness gains away from europe ’s underlying problem , very weak productivity growth .
as a result , china generates about 69 % of the world ’s electric-automobile battery cells , the united states accounts for 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” in nevada ) , and europe just under 4 % . and the more important battery cells are to the global value of electric cars , the stronger agglomeration effects are likely to be . china currently controls the entire value chain of electric cars , including the supply of cobalt , an essential raw material in battery manufacturing . yet europe could still develop battery production through recycling of old electronics , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits . doing so would represent a momentous shift .
policymakers in europe ( as well as elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking – particularly their fiscal thinking – to put people first . but breakthrough technology companies like apple , facebook , and twitter also rely on people with access to well-financed education systems . governments that make it their central objective of maximizing human well-being are ending up not just encouraging higher levels of economic growth , but also nurturing more healthier ones . and , while there is increasing “ tech ” for the good ” sector in europe , it will succeed only if it supports up-to-date infrastructure , which in general demands the public outlays . governments that make it their central objective of maximizing human well-being are ending up not just encouraging higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier policies .
it is , for example , untenable in rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment effectively block an agreement to open up new markets for services and manufactures that account for more than 90 % of employment . in developing countries , pro-trade voices might help to turn the discussion into opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasizing exceptions . all countries will need to surrender ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden on itself alone . the initiative will need to come from the top if the case is to be made in any country for more open markets and for help on those facing adjustment . pro-trade forces may well speak out in the political process .
inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq , as well as a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states , does not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . indeed , iran ’s prompt shia-led support in iraq has been intended in part to preempt competition from its regional opponents . yet iranian critics of intervention seem to believe that there is a middle way . iran ’s hawks may be confident that their country is invincible , but fears are mounting that regional overreach could set off a long list of dangerous consequences . iran has already been countenanced by the removal of maliki in the favor of haider al-abadi , and if broader policy reconsideration is needed to quell this threat , so be it .
the impact on the lessons that have been learned in india is all the more striking . in houston , odisha ’s residents were ready for an early date for the advent of cyclone phailin . that storm caused 1833 fatalities , with at least 88 killed during harvard ’s . in houston , the authorities were ready for a harvey partly because of the lessons learned from hurricane katrina that devastated new orleans in 2005 . by that time the storms had made landfall , many people had already evacuated .
but this , too , is unlikely in the near term . for the catalan separatists , that means that they now confront what the political scientist hans morgenthau has termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . for the catalan separatists , that means that they now confront what the political scientist hans morgenthau has termed the “ “ “ a-c ” paradox of nationalism . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the privilege of leaving catalonia ? and why , for today , would n’t ’s “ oppressed ” catalans have become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent this from happening ?
any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require the deep concessions of both sides , and the concessions that leaders on both parties will need to persuade their respective publics to accept . even that futile scenario may prove optimistic , because it presupposes that the talks pull out of the ground – an impossible feat – should israel continue its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . trump ’s son-in-law and advisor , jared kushner , who has been tasked with settling the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the topic , jason greenblatt , seem to understand this . such activity is not only unjust ; it is the violation of the united nations security council ’s resolution of 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( the us , then headed by barack obama , abstained ) . any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both parties , with the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept .
the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . a striking communiqué by the world ’s leaders at the bri in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promote “ “ peace , ” justice , social cohesion , inclusivity , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” ” ” ” ” ” and women ’s empowerment . in doing so , though china does not openly call into question the foundations of the liberal order . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called the “ one belt , one road ” project ) – which xi has christened a century ’s ” project – is a true reflection of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic choice to step up commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa – seize the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” and they are unprepared to risk the foundations of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth .
to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies acquire more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficits will widen without an explicit definition of fundamental human rights . part of the blocked constitutional treaty is simply a compendium of existing eu treaties , which , because those treaties will remain in force regardless of whether they are part of a new paper , they may become decoupled from the rest . the question , then , is whether the new leaders , as early as next month , succeed in a new effort to embrace the vital institutional reforms demanded by the enlarged union . part of the stalled documentary , the eu charter of fundamental rights , can be deferred . part of the stalled documentary , the un charter , can be deferred .
in the longer term , this is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law . but , for europe , there is an even more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance today is more necessary than ever before , a far stronger relationship with britain in europe and europe is an equal partner with america . in the longer run , this is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law . this is true of the nations of european nations . as world change and opens up across national boundaries and cultures that values will govern the twenty-first century ?
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . taken together , those cases point to high levels of state capture – a form of corruption , rife in the former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors are using insiders to win control over their public assets and assets . similarly , just a couple of months ago , two police vice ministers , transportation minister , and former chief of state petroleum corporation all brought to court on charges of sales of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to private companies in losses .
a minority coalition comprising the greens would push the csu into a compromise on the migration issues and climate policies that are unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . and merkel herself will try to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp , in order to prevent it from becoming dependent on it . the fdp , for its part , wants to participate in such a government , for precisely that reason . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . and merkel herself will try to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp , in order to prevent it from becoming dependent on it .
one us government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used their credit cards to purchase some $ 1 billion worth of goods that they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some european and american branded goods are actually manufactured in china ) . though both the beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much of the poverty rate remains to be achieved . chinese corporations ’ ’ ’ ’ high levels of indebtedness might be the source of financial instability , even though several officials have stressed the lack of concern . it is revealing that achieving the five-year plan ’s target of halving poverty by 2020 – which requires reducing the number of poor people by about 55 million – is defined as only about $ 354 per year , or less than one dollar per day . chinese corporations are still a low-income country , with per capita gdp of only $ 14,000 , about one fourth of this in the united states .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal de-generative dynamics of autocracy and an historic track record of failed one-party regimes may have benefited from reading leon trotsky , who has learned something about revolutions . another explanation is the fear of contemplating the unknown . the ccp ’s rule may not last , but an alternative – state-directed failure and civilian chaos – could be far worse than that of the status quo . dictatorships are viewed as indestructible before falling , trotsky is reminiscent of us , but their disappearance is viewed as inevitable once they are overthrown . yet the record of democratic transitions since 1974 indicates that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous .
neusoft ’s equipment looks like little more than a personal computer , with the sensors attached to one another . neusoft ’s equipment looks like little personal computers , with the sensors attached to one another . neusoft started as a low-cost competitor to an oracle company . after moving on producing an automobile audio facility , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , started hearings on complaints from local hospitals about the high costs of specialized x-rays , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machinery ( like those manufactured by ge , philips , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . neusoft began as a low-cost competitor to ortega .
but , on foreign-policy terms , postwar western germany – and , subsequently , reunified germany – was totally predictable : never against the west ; always , more europe . inside germany , there has been never-ending debates about german identity – what one historian , after all , called the continual feud of what is perhaps german , might mean . nowadays , the “ berlin ” “ berlin republic ” is extremely secure about its own identity , and seemingly offshore , in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for this change , and it is important to be seen . princeton – by now , everybody knows that germany is calling the shots not only in the eurozone , but throughout all of europe .
whereas only around 49 % of manufacturing startups , and about 37 % of all information startups , and about 37 % of information startups , survive for four or more years , those that manage to generate breakthrough innovations . and the oversight that warped kelvin kelvin ’s estimate suggests , the possibility that the fluid motion could efficiently transport heat within the earth of the andes turned out to be critical of understanding plate tectonics and continental drift . startup companies exemplify the potential gains from risk-taking . tom watson , who led ibm through decades of robust growth , is well known for having fueled brilliant blunders . as it put it , we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful … . we need to forgive the mistakes that have been made , because someone has been attempting to act aggressively on behalf of corporate interests .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the greatest threat stem from netanyahu , the most serious threat .
popular discontent in russia has also been inflamed by the authorities ’ widespread reviled pension reform , which involves raising the retirement age . though reelected in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since plummeted , to 45 % . russians resent mounting economic insecurity brought about by trump ’s firing of ’s predecessor , barack obama , started after russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . according to putin , he rooted for trump ( but has not interfered in trump ’s name ) , because they share a desire for improvement in the bilateral relationship . now , more than ever , putin needs american friendship .
of course , wall street ( whose interests america ’s treasury represent ) the gains from capital-market liberalization in emerging markets may be debatable : they are making money as capital flows as they flow out and , in a restructuring that occurs in the aftermath of the resultant havoc . in some cases , american firms were buying up the banks , held on them until korea recovered , and then re-selling them , reaping billions in capital gains . in south korea , the imf urged selling to the country ’s banks to american investors , despite the fact that koreans had managed their own economies impressively over four decades , with more growth , more stability , and no systemic scandals marking the us financial markets with so frequency . in its rush to have westerners buying up the us banks , the imf has forgotten one detail : ensuring that south korea can recapture at least a fraction of these gains through taxation . whether american investors had greater expertise in the banking sector in emerging markets may be debatable ; the fact is that they have greater expertise in tax avoidance .
princeton – on june 1 , derek parfit , one of the great philosophers of my generation , died . just over a year earlier , in a poll on a prominent website of philosophy , parfit voted the most important living anglophone philosopher . just over a year earlier , in a poll on a prominent website of philosophy , parfit voted the most important living anglophone philosopher . now , parfit was not a household name ; it was only a citizen . getting into the philosophical argument with it is like playing chess with the grandmaster grandmaster : it was already thought of any response that i could make to his arguments , consider a few possible replies , and knowing objections to each reply just as top counters toward those objections .
equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures , as well as the stigma attached to an illness that is often sexually transmitted . on paper , the hospital appears well-staffed and well endowed , but , on my own rounds , i found the halls and wards deserted and barren . but the under-equipped hospitals may not be the single greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . on paper , the hospital appears well-staffed and well endowed , but on my own rounds there , i found the halls and wards deserted and barren . few of both the therapeutic and diagnostic options that have been made available have been made available .
these simulations also suggested that continued reliance on exports of labor results in low growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exporting manufactured goods . but the level of average incomes in both the west bank and gaza will remain far lower under the latter strategy than it does about the situation that an israeli labor market is progressively reopened for the palestinian labor party . that confirms the enormous short-lived welfare cost of the palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor markets . comparing the outcomes of the two simulations suggests that large exports of palestinian labor to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by placing an upward squeeze on wages , undermining competitiveness . what trade policies may boost exports of goods , rather than labor ?
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . but , just a year and a half later , the us economy shows no signs of recovery , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . addis ababa , when zimbabwe was deposed by president robert mugabe in november 2017 , after more than 30 years in power , many had hoped that the economic fallout that he oversaw will soon turn out to be reversed . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ?
china believes that it has found its own model for development and modernization , and its rulers regard the games in the same way that nazis and leonid brezhnev did as a means of “ selling ” their model to a global audience . apparently , the chinese have been politically tone-deaf in the choice of an architect , whose name has conducted such a dark , historic connotations . but , in that case , when the son borrows crucial components of his father ’s architectural principles and served a regime seeking to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , does not willingly reflect those sins ? the speer ’s name itself probably mattered no to officials whom he selected . totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in the 1980 ’s , and now china – want to host the olympics as a route to signal to world supremacy .
these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas calls a constitutional version of constitutional patriotism ( others hailed as civic patriotism ) . in a recent dutch election , liberals might argue for respect for the rights of migrants , because respect and tolerance is traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can take pride . macron may proudly call himself the french patriot act , because france has given france the world liberté , égalité , and fraternité . the path to tiananmen square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of an misplaced sense of ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for noble , universal values . this philosophical position holds practical implications .
if the icc fulfills the role that it has created , it can neither bow to such pressure nor let its deficient performance continue . to succeed , the icc will need to overcome robust opposition , and not just from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump . in april , when the icc addressed whether to follow through on its investigation into the war crimes act in afghanistan – including any that may have been perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration revoked visa of the us court ’s chief prosecutor . by pursuing such investigations effectively and without delay , the icc will need to rebuild its credibility , undermining its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . instead , its leaders , – particularly its chief prosecutor , guda attorney general – must take recent criticisms as motivation , demonstrating that they are up to the task .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates over the last two years . compounding the problem , the fact that one in a country undertaking expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues its paramount global reserve currency . the reason is obvious : having experienced a “ multi-speed recovery ” since the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries maintain very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , with rapid growth emerging economies unwinding the expansionary policies that they adopted during recessions . this asymmetry spurred enormous capital inflows from the former to the latter , probably to continue . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital will drive up their currencies ’ exchange-rate movements , except fueling the current-account and asset bubbles that past experience has taught them a sure recipe for future crises .
greenpeace , together with other organizations , opposed the use of genetically modified ( gmos ) of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has been campaigning against the establishment of a beta carotene that is transformed into a human body into vitamin a. but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . moore ’s mortality figures seem to be on the high ground , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , it causes the blindness of some 250,000-500,000 preschool children each year , about half of whom die in just 12 months . likewise , in some countries , a high rate of maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth is leading a major factor in high rates of maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth .
in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some special set of assets in financial markets mirrored excess supply in product markets and services , which in turn created excess supply for workers in labor markets . if one had relieved excess demand for financial assets , then you also cured excess supply in goods and services ( the shortcoming of aggregate demand ) , as well as excess labor supply ( mass unemployment ) . the implication for this has been clear . back in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to struggle what he called “ general gluts . ”
similarly , bec has pledged to boost others ’ work by adopting an era of flexible access , rewarding seeds , angel , and series of investment , with the expectation that once these investments are de-risking them , the traditional business capital will invest at an early stage . that is why mark zuckerberg ’s initiative on maximum flexibility , allowing resources to be channeled into non-profits , channeled toward private investment , or used to help influence policy debates . it is the gap seen in areas as diverse as health care , educational attainment , and combating climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems . none of the single actor – – – is it the government , the university ’s research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of investors – can solve today ’s ’s really large problems on its own .
american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people out of china and india into the global middle class . yet an even more cynical view pervades populist logic , namely that , in its excessive adherence to globalism , the us has sown the seeds of its own political and economic devastation . the goal is not only to bring home ” american jobs , but rather to shape a system that expands american dominance . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks that something can be done about it . the liberal view in asia of the rise of the us is that it makes the world a fairer , more just place , where one ’s economic destiny will not depend entirely on where they happen .
but , in such a scenario , north korea could hold onto relations hostage to such outsize demands as the withdrawal of american forces from the region , as well as the economic and energy assistance needed to prop up the regime . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the assumption that this may enhance communication , thereby diminishing the size of the nuclear threat . ultimately , north korea ’s summit with the stalinist government will rebuff any efforts that encroaches on the isolation it needs to stay in power . one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering the conventional south korean government and american forces , and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons into the south . but , in such a scenario , north korea could hold its relations hostage to such outsize demands as the withdrawal of american forces from the region , as well as the economic and energy assistance needed to prop up the regime .
thus , the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – has taken a left-wing form . in both countries , the far right has lacked the breeding ground that it has elsewhere . in greece , a major political fault line has been the austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund . in both countries , the far right has lacked the breeding ground it has elsewhere . the narrative is similar in the leading two exceptions to the right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain .
in the quid pro quo that has been followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to a pariah status . eight years later , an american predatory drone , and french airstrikes , qaddafi had met with his demise . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all of its wmd efforts . british and american negotiators in secret to discuss the case for the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other forms of terrorism . this coincided with a critical demand : no agreement without an american mandate to eschew regime change .
botswana 's amazing annual per capita income growth of about 13 % over the past decade has been accompanied by a decline from almost six children per woman to below four . increasing populations dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also of human capital . why are rapid population growth ill for a country 's rural standard of living ? the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity rises , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in each child 's education to ensure that future adults benefit from the key determinant of their economic success . the math is straightforward : more people mean that ( on average ) all get fewer .
that may sound too much like the old system . but it does mean an understanding that even democracy has many of the rules , ideally those that have a majority chosen but are mostly non-elected directly elected ; those rules generally reflect trade-offs between elected representatives who can argue and negotiate in a person , reflecting the overall preferences of those who elect them . the modernizers need to form a coherent force – and , most likely , a political party , rather than simply relying on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of a crowd to govern the country . that may sound somewhat like the old system . like it or not , they can not do that as a flower brigade ; they need to select leaders who can speak out and negotiate for them .
indeed , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of the health-care and social-assistance workforce , and that sector could account for one-quarter of women ’s future employment opportunities ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of male job gains ) . indeed , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers , and that sector could account for one-quarter of future female job opportunities ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of male job gains ) . this modest advantage for women reflects the robust growth envisioned in sectors such as health care , where female workers are well represented . rising incomes ; growing health-care demand , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology creates new jobs opportunities . given the secular and occupational distribution of such opportunities , perhaps women are slightly better positioned to benefit from them .
and the icons obviously were flattered by putin ’s own adoration ( as well as by its proximity to power ) . i myself once witnessed putin ’s courting of the culture of power . directly across the aisle of me , there was putin , sitting between a one-time dissident cellist and the conductor of pavich rostropovich , and his equally infamous wife , the opera diva galina viva vishnevskaya . russia ’s leader was like kid in a candy store of time , thrilled to be surrounded by such cultural icons , former exiles no less . it was a new year of eve 2003 , during a concert at a newly reopened house in moscow .
by 1998 , with cpi inflation starting to plummet , producer prices had already been falling for eight months , remaining negative for a full 51 months , with cpi growth starting to recover after 39 months . yet , soon enough , gdp growth began to deteriorate . an obvious lesson is that the government was expected to switch to loosening earlier , more forcefully . in seeking to revive growth in an increasingly difficult global environment and to buffer exports against the effects of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government gave monetary and fiscal policy starting in november 1997 . yet it was too little too little too little too little too little now .
indeed , whereas blanchard focuses on the rate of low-risk us government bonds , piketty fears a return to risky capital investment . so , too , have the us shift from piketty ’s r > > g to the world ’s blanchard r < g world ? the answer , then , is no , and yes , yes . whereas blanchard focus the rate on low-risk us government bonds , piketty fears a return to risky capital investment . piketty ’s views and blanchard may indeed be reconciled because they are speaking of different interest rates .
maybe the risk that a greek debt restructuring would trigger a financial meltdown has always been minimal , with quiescent markets expected . by contrast , in comparison to their likely future losses , european banks have raised relatively little capital recently , and much of it has been creative accounting , rather than actually loss-absorbing shareholder equity . but this is not because the banks are preparing themselves by raising more capital . the banks did not fail , and there is no sign of tumbling dominos . but , in that case , why all of this fuss ?
moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that short periods of high unemployment do not force workers to sell their homes , or even cars . that way , economically irrational lock-in effects , whereby workers simply can not afford to make a job change , are avoided . in the scandinavian countries , unlike , say , germany and the us government , rather than individual firms , accounting for the majority of social benefits . and , rather than solving all types of economically created private-sector problem , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to service their mortgages and interest , but also indirectly , because their loans to households are repaid even during times of recession .
but , having suffered from currency - and capital-account crises with more openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate vast reserves to protect themselves at a time of greater global financial volatility . meanwhile , national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has been shrinking since the great recession . public investment and basic social protections can help turn this around , by creating millions of jobs . while financial globalization has failed to boost growth , it has aggravated volatility and instability . the irony here is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has faded .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ attacking family institutions , ” using contempt or doubts about its important role , ” the pope and the grand imam states “ “ “ “ “ imam ” concerns ” – that is , the most threatening evils of our era ” – ” ” the paper asserts . the paper asserts that a family is an “ fundamental human and humanist nucleus and humanist nucleus , ” and that it is vital in bringing children around the world , to raise them , and to provide them with robust moral formation and domestic security . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . yet it is widely recognized that young people are often left behind . addis ababa , with nearly 60 % of its population below the age of 25 , africa is the youngest region in the world . frequently , they confront inadequate economic opportunities , and perhaps even socially , socially or politically . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement are addressed , achieving many of the un ’s sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible .
while trade has surged , inward investment lags , with russia accounting for only one-tenth of china ’s export markets . russia ’s ’s ’s economic decline has heightened anxiety about the rise of china . in the nineteenth century , none of the countries taking more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic situation in the far east is where the russian population of six million and the chinese border is up to 120 million – a source of anxiety in moscow . as the economist timothy geithner pointed out recently , russia worries about becoming an alliance with a junior partner – which is more dependent on china than china does on russia . according to zhang yujun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship for the us in the world is that of america . ”
martin luther then snarls that unless it is a lamb , it is his father ; after that , he immediately moves into action . martin luther ’s “ justifications ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” for his malevolent action was the luxury . he then argues that last year , a lamb called him the wrong names ( but the lamb was just six months old ) . florence – in naedrus ’s well-known fable and lamb – can easily eat the lamb with no words at all , but rather prefers to set out his own “ justification ” for ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the lamb , because he is not a lamb , was just six months old ) .
and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . i am not speaking of america ’s 2016 election , which placed donald trump in power , but rather the 2018 midterm elections in brazil won by so-called trump from the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 . arlington , virginia – the election of which placed donald trump in power , but rather the 2018 midterm elections in brazil – won by so-called trump from the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
this latest surge in american populism has been financed by some extraordinarily affluent men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the super-rich and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , such as the social security and us president barack obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s health-care plan . she then quickly proceeded to hand out a long celebratory address to the heroism of us soldiers “ fighting for freedom ” to palin ’s sentimental clichés on the army . that agenda might seem selfish , albeit understandable , from the standpoint of the oil billionaire . but then there has been something strange about the entire event , just when there is something strange about the tea party movement itself . this latest surge of american populism has been financed by some extraordinarily affluent men , including a few oil billionaires like david and charles koch , who favors tax cuts for the super-rich and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , like the social security and us president barack obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s health-care plan .
of course , they have their own identities and strengths , but they will miss out on chávez ’s protection of global influence , as do his subsidies . in addition , they govern the countries in which catholics constitute an overwhelming majority . while the degree of their religious commitment varies , they share a powerful emotional attachment to the beliefs that will provide francis i with significant political leverage . the beginnings of his papacy finds populist governments in the vulnerable situation , which has been hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . moreover , they rule the countries in which catholics constitute an absolute majority .
not even the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that none is exempted from america ’s surveillance options have stirred america ’s demand for a new approach . for example , it should be unacceptable to the us congress to block the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees ’ 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared the us national-security committee . but obama can not do it alone – and so far neither the american public nor the american congress seems committed to reconnecting with its moral compass . the response to a second major question shaping the world ’s ’s future – whether china will regain its economic momentum – also seems to be “ no , ” at least in the short run , with most experts agreeing that china ’s ’s ’s own export – and the investment-led growth pattern has all but exhausted its potential . the us needs to lead the world by deed and example .
nevertheless , there has been substantive and remarkable progress , all over the past couple of years . to fill the prescription for a drug with the well-known pharmacogenomic profile profile , a customer can get fast genotyping in determining appropriate dose , drugs , or predilection for serious spillover effects . moreover , someday , we will know – through sequencing the entire genome – about rarer genomic variations that are correlated with treatment response or spillover effects . this paved the way for the next-generation pharmacies of the time . genotyping can now be accomplished at 20 minutes , and over time will get even faster .
from the perspective of banks , the most obvious lesson was the need for a strong national government to incur the potential costs of the rescue . the us is large enough to manage the behemoths , such as the bank of america or citigroup . very large banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable to the problem of their own making . the financial crisis produced new answers to where the greatest competitive advantage lie . it is no longer best subject to the most favorable regulatory regime , but where the state has the deepest pockets .
linneus invented the modern process of naming species in the mid-1770s , even though naming no longer came under way until the peace process after napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 . early european exploration has probably continued this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species that was known to date between 1,500 and 1800 increases as the taxonomists describe the new species from the skeletal remains that they found themselves in caves , for example , where bones survived . the us has so far done comparable analyses of the fate of the caribbean and indian ocean islands in the wake of first human contact , but large numbers of extinctions are likely to occur , too . early european exploration has probably continued this rapid pace of extinction .
the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; but it , along with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all are coping with the mix of civil and proxy wars . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; but it , along with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . the plight of millions of refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic boon to the countries in the region and europe . iran ’s nuclear pact , at best , manages one aspect of iranian power and only for a limited period of time .
these movements created space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . droughts hit kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa have all experienced major water shortages . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . droughts have struck in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa have all experienced major water-related deficiencies . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to grow , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go .
a powerful , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s own interest , and a robust partnership with america will be vital for africa ’s continued growth and development . this is the start of an important dialogue with the us . the decisions that we make now will have implications for generations to come . we owe it to our offspring and silicon savannah entrepreneurs have already led the charge – to get it right . the stakes for both africa and the us are high .
paris , some countries are naturally at ease with the concept and reality of strategic strength . yet , to understand india ’s political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparisons are with america during the 1920 ’s . such was clearly the case for france under louis xiv , imperial sun king in the seventeenth century , and such is the case today for china , whose leadership is comfortable with the balance-of-power games of classical europe . clearly , india is in a different category , and it will be a matter of course . on the economic front , its self-confidence has been boosted by how the western world now looks at it with a mix of respectability and greed : “ “ what sort of deals ” can i strike such an inward-looking market , whose population will soon be any country ’s largest ?
an even more striking pattern is that americans are over-optimistic about socioeconomic mobility in parts of the us or across geographic regions . in both america and europe , for example , people calling themselves “ conservative ” on economic policy matters to be confident that everyone ’s children are equality of opportunity , and that free-market economies in their countries are just as equitable as they are . these people favor government intervention , believing that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness and perhaps even generate more inequality . the reverse holds true for those calling economically “ liberal ” people . an even more striking pattern is that americans are over-optimistic about socioeconomic mobility in parts of the us or across geographic regions .
once upon a time , much of the relatively minor department-store value chains , as well as those of other us headquarters , spread throughout american companies and outlets in several towns . those headquarters brought the income to their city by providing back-office services to their shops . the disruption can be due not just to industrial closures . but the retail industry ’s consolidation , powered in part by walmart and amazon , has dealt a deathblow to many such firms . the grocer , a coffee shop and barber out of business , and everybody leaves it , turned the eu into a ghost town .
the republicans ’ proposed tax cut would generate $ 2 trillion of revenue shortfall over the next decade , and may not plug that hole with the revenue-saving plan , or with the $ 1.2 trillion it may have been anticipated from a bat . the republicans ’ proposed tax cut would generate $ 2 trillion of revenue shortfall over the next decade , and they can not plug that revenue savings hole from their health-care reform plan , or the $ 1.2 trillion that may have been expected from a bat . the bat has no significant support , even among republicans , and would violate the rules of the world trade organization . the first scenario is unlikely , for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to reckless increases in public-sector debt .
such resilience will be tested over the longer run , though , owing to the fiscal and external imbalances that have been unaffected by data revision . when a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is to add up . its net exports and the current-account balance are improving , with the rest of the world as a whole . but this has not happened , either .
first , when it comes to climate change , the important point is to look like doing something . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a prime example of this . new analysis shows that only 17 countries , including algeria and samoa , are actually meeting their commitments , in most cases , because they have promised very little . countries running that can get away with the massaging data . countries have made grandiose commitments to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all of their promises together add up to less than 1 % of what is needed .
that strategy faltered , owing in part to america ’s intransigence under president george w. bush ’s administration and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( of which the u.s. has never signed ) . the eu ’s copenhagen accord simply asked countries for voluntary pledges to slash their emissions by specific amounts . as a result , the vast areas of our planet – currently home to billions of people – could become unlivable . earlier unfccc conferences sought to reach a legally binding agreement on emissions reductions , at least to the highly industrialized countries that produced most of the greenhouse gases now on the atmosphere . thawing siberian permafrost releases vast amounts of methane .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , trump has called for the creation of a european preemptive diplomacy mechanism , as well as mandatory consultations , in case of any state ’s security threats . while i am , by nature , an optimist , one must admit that it is very hard not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes closer . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine could have been averted . yet the fault must also be shared with europe ’s entire political class , civil-society institutions , and media outlets . of course , political leaders are to blame for filing these and other “ eurocrats ” in their archives .
sweden , which runs an industrial workstream with india , has created the world bank ’s first $ fossil-fuel-free steel plant . but , as europe ’s leaders increasingly recognize , the accelerator is time to pick up the accelerator . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe with the largest onshore wind farms ; poland is producing electric buses ; and austria is leading the way when it comes into green buildings . when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , tasked with leading energy talks at the un summit , has integrated huge volumes of wind power into its electricity grid .
it has been in no one ’s interest to disturb this live-and let-live pragmatism for very long . because migrants are involved in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are applied to various types of people , and thus to distinguish those differences that may hurt a country from those that will not . prejudice , for example , has tended to decline as participation increases . one result of the deal is a paradoxal-sounding familiarity with the difference . prejudice has tended to wane as participation increases .
this keeps small firms in poor nations and regions from achieving their full potential . based on our own experience , in mexico , which has opened itself to foreign investment and commerce , as well as to canada , as the lead aid donor agencies and major drivers of private investment in developing countries -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and fixed . this is the reason why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development agenda administrator mark malloch brown have asked us to lead the new commission on the private sector and development , we have agreed . entrepreneurial energy already exists : visit a tiniest town in the poorest countries on the market day , and you see the private sector in action . if small firms could expand beyond village square , they could drive up the growth of their countries better than any assistance agency .
and yet , though he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama , from firing missiles over japan to pursuing frequent purges at home , indicates that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump indicate that he has a good handle on the us president ’s psyche . there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit . and yet , though he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama , from firing cruise missiles over japan to pursuing frequent purges at home , indicates that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . so far , he has proved highly effective at keeping bromance alive and an impending track summit .
amid rising inequality , frustration with pervasive forms of corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . likewise , it reversed a heat on simmering social unrest that has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended explicitly to preempt popular protest ) . meanwhile , asean is failing to provide fundamental security : in july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating mediterranean region , denis ten , was assassinated at a broad daytime center for kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , in order to prevent its car mirrors from becoming stolen . all of this has made emigration an increasingly appealing possibility , particularly for the young , raises the specter of an extra brain drain .
the challenge of job creation for saudis might seem like an riches ’ problem . under the current incentives system , the authorities ’ plans to privatize firms and improve their civil-service productivity will , in fact , destroy the jobs that the saudis have occupied . but , whenever the kingdom attempted to reduce public-sector hiring , unemployment surged . some would argue that all of the kingdom needs to be done is a substitute for a saudi job of foreign workers in existing positions . but , whenever the kingdom sought to reduce public-sector hiring , unemployment surged .
but so , too , is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency could be given a substitute for fiat money . in the us , the reason that the us does not use the euro or the yen is obvious : doing so would be senseless and make the economy far less efficient . the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies might viably be operating together not only contradicts the very monetary concept ; it is entirely idiotic . in the us , the reason that the us does not use the euro or the yen is self-evident : doing so would be senseless and makes the economy far less efficient . but , for the money to have its value and generate economies of scale , only so many currencies currently can operate .
that means ensuring that the disruptions stemming from america ’s short-termism will not present a longstanding systemic threat to china , even as they harm the global economy as a whole . the us trade war has thrown this lesson into sharp forbearance . a cool war threatens to undermine those efforts , because facing america at the negotiating table will require that china strengthen its own position above all . minimizing the fallout will require both parties to recognize that , in an interconnected world , efforts to bolster their own positions become self-defeating as they undermine global stability and dynamism . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut and dry than the cold war .
to accelerate the shift toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; including the joint and consistent system of monitoring , reporting and verification ; and provide powerful global economic incentives . in our system , a country that exceeds the global per capita emissions average would pay a specified amount on each additional ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above the set threshold . at the same time , they highlight the knock-on benefits that take quick action on climate change might have , including cuts in local pollution , greater energy and food security , and more rapid innovations . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could enable rapid reductions in greenhouse gases . our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by the “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed or given a bonus based on a vehicle for co2 emissions .
i was also correct to say that all but the minuscule and politicized fringe of economists approving central-bank stability in order to avoid the risk of a collapsing payment system from becoming the first-order consideration of boosting cash demand to the unnatural level . when there is no excess demand in the form of monetary easing , there will be no excess supply of bonds and inventories that underpin and finance the productive capital of the economy . expansionary monetary policy through standard open-market operations by the central bank is therefore the first item on a checklist of what to do during the financial crisis . by purchasing government bonds on the money supply , the central bank can meet the demand side and push down the pricing of money . i was also right to say that all but the minuscule and politicized fringe of economists approve of central-bank guarantees of the system ’s stability in order to avoid the risk of a collapse of the payg system from becoming the first-order consideration of boosting cash demand to the unnatural level .
indeed , none other than george kennan , america ’s originator of the cold war containment strategy , opposed nato ’s enlargement in the 1990s on precisely these grounds . even mikhail gorbachev , during the 25th anniversary of the berlin wall ’s demise , accused the west of failing to uphold the promises it made in 1989 , instead accepting the “ advantage ” of russia ’s now-waning ” claim “ monopoly and domination of the world , ” including through nato enlargement . the eastward enlargement of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . in fact , none other than george kennan , america ’s originator of the cold war containment strategy , opposed nato ’s enlargement in the 1990s on precisely these grounds . there are obvious limits to this theory , and it is important to be seen .
how , then , should we view all of these warnings ? the american stock market ’s share of global equity valuations is the highest it has ever been – an impressive statistic given to the falling u.s. share of global economic activity . against this backdrop , “ some ” is the imf ’s code for the united states . even as its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , no doubt conscious of the panglossian view that it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ “ “ vulnerable ” to an abrupt tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations ” look stretched in some markets . the international monetary fund got its act , too .
given that the us dollar traded at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this suggests that the us dollar is actually about 6 % less than it should be . i have also developed what i have called the gsdeer , which corrects an “ equilibrium ” rate for an ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like america ’s actual interest-rate differential in the us and the eurozone as a whole . given that the us dollar traded at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , that day , that suggests that the us dollar is actually about 6 % weaker than it should be . now , of course , 6 % is not an especially significant difference , and that finding may mean nothing at all . that interest rates are the best thing to make comparisons is a matter of debate , because they are the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to employ the us ten-year us government bond differential adjusted for inflationary expectations .
the kazakh government , scrambling to prop up its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , has given up , and has chosen to pull the plug . but , and here , with its debts being written down , the banking system is now recapitalized and capable of supporting economic growth . the banks have defaulted on their loans , and their creditors have taken on huge “ haircuts ” on their balance sheets ( reducing the size of principal value ) . despite a messy default , this fresh start has generated a notable turning point . the party came to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharon ’s global investment banks accelerated their loan repayments , hoping to pull their money back .
in the drc , for example , even after all , we will reach just 8 % of the 760,000 children . just $ 230 per person is currently available for basic needs like water , food , and shelter ; and fewer than $ 10 per child goes toward education . yet , most importantly , this is an education ’s moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holds a book on an insurgent ’s gun in pakistan , in which teenage mothers exiled in south sudan in neighboring uganda are making an education for their children their top priority , and when the lights viewed from space could include childhood clusters huddled by candlelight attempts to read and study , we know that an education moment has arrived . this year needs to be an education ’s moment – a window of opportunity that has opened up a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the un sustainable development goals , including the reduction of maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improved life quality , and open our thinking on issues of gender equality .
and secretary of state james baker used it to overcome the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the madrid peace conference of 1991 . in the past two decades , the world has grown used inspiration to the us-led international coalitions of warfare in the middle east . it is time for the us to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defusing the iranian nuclear dispute , to change north korea ’s behavior , or to halt the syrian civil war on its own . if the american people can not provide that today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution . and us secretary of state james baker used it to overcome the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the madrid peace conference of 1991 .
if the world does not exclude terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope does it suffer from defeating terrorism elsewhere ? so , before the anti-terror campaign seeks other terrorist outposts , it should eliminate terror in an area in which the un itself is ruled by itself . kosovo is a region far less than afghanistan ’s . if it does not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit itself , just as it uses the humanitarian values that they are using to justify their own `` humanitarian '' interventions . by appeasing terrorists in this manner , the world 's most powerful states are giving a green light to terrorists not just in the balkan countries but all over the world .
the view that an individual gene might account for an absolute biological trait is just as old as genetics itself . soon a few early geneticists , the founders of eugenics movement made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiftlessness , ” and “ criminality ” might all be attributed to individual genes as well . if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behaviors is so complicated , could it really be much less so with humans ? soon , some early geneticists , the founders of eugenics movement , had made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiftlessness , ” and “ criminality ” might all be attributed to individual genes just as well . if the relationship between fruits fly genes and behaviors is so complicated , could it really be much less so with humans ?
and , after all , one can not have a definitive , utopian society without any final , scientific theory of human conduct , combined with some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over the whole story . like boxing and poker , this is a soft , restrained , private form of warfare . the trouble is that , whatever the “ scientifically ” scientifically ” beliefs have been formulated , they remain false . capitalism , among other things , is a struggle among individual people over control of scarce resources . military strategists have known for centuries that there can be , and can be , no definitive science of warfare .
paris – earlier this week , following a series of strained debates , the new government in athens struck a deal with its european creditors , which include an immediate reform package and a four-month extension of the financial-aid program . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , a compromise does not exclude the need for more tough negotiations on a new program of financial-aid , which is expected until late in june . in any negotiation , the key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what the failure to reach an agreement would cost each . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the eu would be uniquely disruptive , which explains why there is very little support for it in poland . in that case , the issue comes at the expense of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone , a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media throughout the recent brexit negotiations , with substantial speculation about the attitude of different players , particularly greece and german governments .
but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture , either . consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast the ballots in 9/11 for its lower house of parliament . consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast the ballots in 9/11 for the lower house of parliament . elections in oil-rich countries are never a good thing , because afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated , and as any elections in iraq are likely to become so . cnn reported that it is “ neither equitable nor free . ”
just as india has done away with the stultifying license raj in the 1990s , successive governments understand the imperative of economic growth , so much so that india ’s bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) challenged the 2004 election of a pro-development platform , encapsulated in its slogan , “ india shining . ” it is largely a matter of supplying public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , seaports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . yet , too , a reliable road creates tremendous additional activity , because trade increases among connected areas , with myriad firms , restaurants , and hotels comes together . satisfying the demand for such goods is , on its own , an engine of growth . and , in contrast to many of the equally poor countries , india already has an extremely powerful entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a host of world-class corporations that can be enlisted as trying to provide these public goods .
a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid pension interventions and further increases in labor-market flexibility . yet berlusconi ’s government came next to nothing to address these deficiencies , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , this could have undertaken coherent supply-side reforms even at the risk of some incipient unpopularity . its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , became poorer , and its economic structure was unfit for new challenges , owing to both firm size and their specialization in traditional industries , as well as low levels of education and research and development . yet nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give correct incentive for restructuring , whereas privatization arrived in order to stave off it .
despite the civil wars , malnutrition , and anguish about the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : a stealthy rise of the top high-technology sector . consider what is happening on several of the few floors of only one high-rise office buildings in accra , ghana ’s capital city . africans talk english , type , at least 50 words on a computer , take data from the paper arguing that america ’s health insurers through the electronic form satellite , place it in new digital forms , and ship them back into the u.s. . there are some 1,500 africans who process american health-insurance claims – working around the clock , in three shifts . if not quite representing the african “ silicon valley , ” those shoots of high tech industries nonetheless can and should be nurtured if africa is to thrive .
the westphalian system was replaced by the cold war-era bipolar order wherein sovereignty rested with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the former soviet union . the objective of that effort was always to prevent a relapse into the old arrangements of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic rule . yet the westphalian system was demolished by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both of which had been at odds with european wars over world domination . the eu was conceived as an effort to regain european sovereignty peacefully , through pooling the national interests of european states . when guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans – even victorious european allies – effectively lost their sovereignty .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the outcome of its banking stress tests . if the ecb grossly under-states the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly eroded . because many banks hold large volumes of eurozone sovereign debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb evaluates sovereign risk . if the ecb grossly under-states the risks , its credibility as a regulator will become badly eroded . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright about it . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright .
they should expand the scale of their investments to include ai-enabled mental-health-care delivery technologies . to be sure , such initiatives are costing money , as well as the right investments . venture capital firms now spend an estimated $ 3.2 trillion annually on global health research and development . at the same time , they could fund competitions among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovations in this field . at the same time , they could finance competitions among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovations in ai .
in some respects , the laboratory looks a bit like a teaching and research hospital . it focuses on both research and on the clinical work of serving out of work for “ patients , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” patients , ” or governments in our case . since then , the us has been operating in more than three dozen countries , as well as regions . yet the teaching-hospital model may have been effective in terms of public policy . consider the case for example , for example , of harvard university ’s growth lab that i established in 2006 , after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa .
any rational international trade regime must begin by recognizing that it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrict policy space countries need to project their own economic and social models . america ’s fledgling textile mills were desperate for the technology , and they did their best to steal british designs and smuggle in the skilled british artisans . and the u.s. had as much to respect the british industrialists ’ trade secrets as china does today for america ’s intellectual-property rights . as one american business historian put it , americans “ were the pirates , ” too . america had the patent laws , but they were protecting only us citizens .
but if the world moves in that direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power starts to take shape , and that will be the beginnings of the new international system . making all of these changes to date will be difficult to achieve . yes , one can debate about a third way or a half path , or the other three and a half and a half way , but these are essentially fringe debates . the second great change – ie , the end of the global ideological divide – also raises hard and , perhaps , more complicated issues . today , there is an essential core even on the occasion of the ritualistic view of the notion that democracies and human rights are turning out to be the departure of political organization with some form of free markets with varying degrees of social accountability based on private enterprise as the foundation for economic activity .
it would offer a return close to those yielded through equity investment , but , with some of the risks offset by its longer-term nature , it would have offered returns close to those yielded . doing so would have proposed a new private-sector investment platform , structured to provide bespoke returns for its various participants . the risk would have been further mitigated through the presence of big , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions . finally , a well-regulated nature of the cash flow would allow for a better , predefined return system than traditional private or public capital can offer . public contributions , likely backstopped by the multilateral lenders , would have delivered projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles .
to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even hold modest amounts of its currency in their reserve portfolios . but such actions may be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as the universally accepted international currency . capital inflows , which will undoubtedly grow in the years ahead , are driven largely by investor appetite for diversification and high returns , rather than by the country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , especially given that china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and beset by significant risks . and countries ’ desire to sustain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic might not be discounted . depending on how early china opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve-currency country in the near term .
of course , there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , ranging from intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba . but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be avoided . and america ’s drug-enforcement administration will not look kindly at any backtracking from previous mexican presidents ’ commitments to pursue an expensive , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico . amlo will almost surely maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while retreating into mexico ’s traditional , archaic counter-interventionist attitude toward regional diplomacy . peasants in guerrero cultivate amazpola for the cartels , rather than the subsistence .
the au should demonstrate leadership on this front , by pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy in line with its agenda 2063 agenda . on the heels of its success in sudan , it will have to confront “ “ constitutional coups ” ” ” ” of presidents , because it sets itself more resolutely as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa . the same year , similar protests have erupted in the democratic republic of the congo , following the enactment of the rule of law , which will enable president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure . in 2015 , enabled by the new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term , amid violent popular protests . the au resisted military coups in the former yugoslavia .
fertility rates among migrants are typically higher than those in native-born europe or northern american families . but a rising number of immigrant workers are not necessarily raising the birth rate . an aging population is contributing to europe ’s poor economic performance . germany , for example , has a large population of guest workers , but few are settling with their families ; most are leaving their children in their homeland . higher fertility rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect a large pool of immigrant families in individual countries .
to be sure , there have been little or no consequences whatsoever for dick cheney . the real culprits at the top of those firms rarely have to worry about . impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes seem to be going unheeded . the few that typically seem to be an end to smack of the wrist , with the company – which means its shareholders – picking up a modest fine . the news has barely made ripple effects in america ’s media .
for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate forebears – have been living in small groups , in which violence can be inflicted only in up-front and personal terms , by harding , repressed , strangling , or using the stick or stone as a club . greene discovered that people were asked to make moral judgments about “ personal ” violations , like pushing a foreigner off a footbridge , showed increasing activity in brain areas linked to emotions . moreover , the minority of subjects that considered it would be right to push an outsider off a footbridge took longer to achieve that judgment than those who claimed to be wrong . why , then , should our judgments and our emotions vary in that manner ? this was not the case with people asked to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations like hurtling a switch .
political uncertainty is high , and there is little prospect of a general election in order to resolve it anytime soon . in september of that year , britain found itself in the same situation , with the trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and a weak level of investor confidence . in may 1949 , britain found itself in the same situation , with the trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and a weak investor of investor confidence . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate a trade deal with the eu , and then its other partners . investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude .
turkey went on to permit the u.-led “ operation to provide comfort ” against iraq in order to take advantage of turkish bases . it has remained a vital member of nato . in fact , power has led refah to compromise rather than extremes . once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and action . relations with israel have , indeed , improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , the play whose title is the proprietor of a few brothels . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in little theater “ club , ” ostensibly confined to members . its performance in new york city in 1905 was raided by a police force . the play is not salacious and contains no coarse language , but it was nonetheless eight years before it can be staged . its performance in new york city in 1905 was raided by the police .
the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s university graduates and universities do not produce enough engineering graduates with technological skills to succeed tomorrow ’s workplace skills . each year , some 13 million young people look to work in africa , but only about three million of them are finding jobs . while the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to generate $ 25 million of new jobs in ten years through its youth jobs in africa initiative , this is not an obvious question where these opportunities will come from . naie robi/paris – africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis portending profound economic , political , and social ramifications . but crises may backfire , and one solution may be just as simple as turning on the lights .
but no palestinian , arab , or unaccountable international leader would ever embrace such a design , as was obvious in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . now , the plans are afoot to advocate a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw , in which the palestinians are not taking part . let us be clear : the two-state solution does not amount to accommodating the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it means ending that colonial enterprise . they did not calculate that the palestinian people possess the dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , and will insist on being treated accordingly . indeed , let ’s be clear : the two-state solution does not amount to accommodating the illegal reality of israeli settlements ; rather , it means ending that colonial enterprise .
in any case , this is not as if avoiding talks about israel represents a departure for sanders . nor does israel seem to be likely to figure a lot in its own jewish identity , which responds more to the memory of the holocaust than anything else . sanders is no different from many other latin american jews in this regard . he certainly has never embraced israel as a political cause , as many other american jewish politicians have . despite saying on the matter where necessary , he has generally not been outspoken about issues concerning the country .
for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief business is business . king salman has embraced trump ’s all-out war with terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , expressing his support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nothing has been said about human rights , far fewer women ’s rights , and the word “ democracy ” never passed trump ’s lips . the deal appears to have become the foundation of a marvelous new friendship , between the world ’s ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . instead , trump has completed an agreement to grant $ 110 billion in advanced armaments from saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in the american economy .
in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflation risk and exchange-rate risk . a japanese investor holding up the dollar ’s equities or real estate may , instead , have been able to compensate for exchange-rate losses by buying up the yen ’s futures . given that gold was $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold did nothing to compensate for the decline in the us dollar ’s value . the same goes for a euro-based investor that would not have gained by holding gold but might have offset the dollar ’s decline by buying up the dollar ’s futures . the tips , or the equivalent of those from other governments , provide safe inflationary hedges , and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china has pegged its under-valued currency , the renminbi , into the us dollar , any weakening of the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis , has also implied a weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many other countries , are now buying dollars to defend their own currencies against revaluation , and therefore to defend their exports . yet is china really being blamed for the eruption of the global currency war ? the united states is now taking drastic steps toward china . south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many other countries , are now buying dollars to defend their own currencies against revaluation , and therefore to defend their exports .
it is critical that we are developing an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for tracing incomes and wealth . but , while such sources may provide valuable insights , they fail to satisfy the standards of methodological rigor and the conceptual clarity on which informed public talk is to be based . to this end , an especially important milestone will come with a revision , owing over the next three years to the un ’s national account system . it is critical that we are developing an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for monitoring incomes and wealth . government statistical agencies should publish revenue and wealth levels at the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the effective taxes that such groups pay .
moreover , trump and congressional republicans are now learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton may have told them , is fearsomely complicated . but those subsidies are largely paid for by their own dedicated taxes . eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the us government a little more than $ 100 billion annually , about 3 % of all federal spending . it is becoming increasingly clear that the name changes ( trumpcare , ” someone ? ) and can be expected that the republican plan covers fewer people ; but much of the substance will remain the same .
mr. and ms. sarney were eventually absolved with all the charges , but not soon enough to rescue her candidacy . during cardoso 's tenure , privatization of telecoms , the national mining corporation , and parts of the electric industry . during cardoso 's tenure , privatization of telecoms , the national mining corporation , and parts of the electric industry were part of the electric industry . social inequalities heightened , and public debt and urban violence all rose steeply . since early february , lula showed strength , particularly after the right favored candidate , roh sarney , crashed and burned when the federal police and prosecutors discovered a cash load in her husband 's office .
( for all of these interventions , the numbers are likely to be slightly smaller , because a charity ’s impact calculator is not up for such large sums , and so does not account for that costs that will skyrocket once the needs of those easiest to reach were met . ) when one chooses to buy “ salvator ” mundi ” rather than to restore sight to nine million people , what is to say about their own values ? in case , one considers that people receiving such a windfall would spend it on alcohol , gamblers , or prostitution , an independent review has shown that they do n’t . give directly ’s cash transfers boost recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets . for $ 450 million , one could also purchase $ 180 million of bed nets , enough to protect an estimated 271 million people from malaria .
the recipient is unlikely to witness the complexities ; most of it will be dealt with on the back . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as fewer mail are dispatched , a higher proportion of it will be desired and responded . there will be plenty of glitches at the outset , beginning with those with multiple email addresses , old friends not on your current white list of free senders , and so forth . likewise , mail managers will manage incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests as outlined by the recipient , collecting a credit card on their senders ( or , more likely , their paypal accounts , or navigate other pay-as-you-go systems as they emerge ) . to begin , one can simply fix your price at , say , $ 1 , alongside a list of those who can reach you for free .
it was a mistake to view bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , just as some have done , as trump ’s white house is rafizzled putin . in both trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s ’s ’s ’s ill-fated philosophy has aligned itself with trump ’s own political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self , is just another story ) . and bannon has intruded on us foreign policy by getting himself to the us national security council on some time , until two of the generals in trump ’s administration , the national security adviser , h. r. mcmaster , and john kelly ( now the chief of staff ) – – have removed him . ( bannon was believed to have been behind a recent push to impeach mmaster , largely by implying that he is “ anti-israel . ” ) bannon has strengthened the nationalist inclination that has led trump to overrule his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement .
so , too , creditor countries , led by germany , have struggled to do the minimum necessary to keep europe alive , while the debtors have dimmed impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . parochial suspicions have been the main impediment to a grand solution . no country ’s taxpayers want to feel that they are paying out for others ’ excesses : the single currency has not imposed shared responsibility . so creditor countries , led by germany , have struggled to do the bare minimum necessary to keep europe alive , while the debtors have dimmed impotently on germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . parochial suspicion has been the main impediment to a grand solution .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the european average and roughly 35 % vis-à-vis germany , restoring its external-debt sustainability . in return , the french economy suffers , because its customers in southern europe are in distress . in fact , the french economy suffers because its purchasers of customers in southern europe are in distress . the cheap credit ushered in by the european fed ’s inflationary economic bubble in southern europe , which burst when the financial crisis hit . the ecb and the international community in particular , the international monetary fund , have been struggling to cope with the crisis by substituting a dearth of private capital with public credit .
of course , encyclopedias it is often meant to be read in order to cover it . the same will happen , even if one read a philosophy , say , husserl . if i wish to see whether it could be possible that napoleon met kant , i pick up volumes k and n , and discover that napoleon had been born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 and died in 1804 . an author opens at the fist page and follows a host of questions for you to see how he achieves his conclusions . the same will happen , even if one met .
but our emotions are the algorithms bequeathed by evolution , by which we make the most decisions , including the political ones ; the economic cost-benefit analysis that do not link to our emotional compass does not shift the needle . at the heart of the issue is that of the us . what does it really mean for an eu member state , nigeria , libya , iraq , israel , israel , or any other political entity ? what does it mean for an eu member , nigeria , libya , iraq , switzerland , or any other political entity ? from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating the economic rationale .
the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , rather than islam , which appears at loggerheads with democracy . when a government sprang up from reasonably fair elections , and an elected government manages to fill the most prominent political posts , the country viewed as “ electorally competitive . ” this conclusion comes at a time of comparing muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” in fact , islam and democracy are frequently presumed to be bitter antagonists . the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam , that seems at loggerheads with democracy .
understanding the history of synthetic biology matters , because recognizing the right paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects the potential application and diffusion of technologies . thirty-five years ago , america ’s national health institutes adopted overly risk-averse guidelines using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering ” techniques . thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted an overly risk-averse set of research guidelines using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering ” techniques . other researchers noted that the organism really is only “ semi-synthetic , ” ” owing to synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) , was introduced to more normal or nonsynthetic , bacterium . ( if anything , such standards seem excessively burdensome . )
paris – with weak demand in advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including among the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that an income convergence era has arrived . that process began in the late 1980 ’s , persistently unabated , with continued unabated except in the years surrounding the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . the pace of convergence accelerated further during and just after the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : the global average differential in per capita income growth accelerated to just over four percentage points between 2000 and 2012 , from slightly more than two percentage points over the next two decades . nothing could be further from the truth . as i have argued earlier , the convergence of emerging countries ’ real average incomes to the middle class , with advanced countries ’ incomes likely to continue in the 2020 as a whole .
labour has sought to avoid an open constitutional debate , because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires the resolution of the party ’s over-representation in the uk ’s parliament . labour has sought to avoid a constitutional debate , because any move in the direction of the federal institutions required to resolve the party ’s over-representation in the uk ’s parliament . as for conservatives , france has allowed its faith in a country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any debate on how that union can be modernized . this belief has fit the two major political parties . as for conservatives , france has allowed its faith in a country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any debate about how that union can be modernized .
at the same time , fact-checkers should not simply focus on tackling fake information , but also on identifying sources of robust information and pointing their readers and adherents to them . that means reaching out to public figures to request on-site corrections , lodging grievances with standards of norms , and offering training to media organizations . it also means working with tech firms to find ways to prevent the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international boundaries . at the same time , fact-checkers should focus not simply on tackling fake information , but on identifying sources of robust information and pointing their readers and adherents to them . this is the approach taken by our organizations , and , as small-scale and under-resourced as they are , the impact is already apparent .
new york – us president barack obama captured global attention with his prague speech in 2009 to make a compelling case for a nuclear weapon-free world . it would take a brave gambler to bet on the ratification of the comprehensive test ban treaty ( ctbt ) by the american senate earlier this month . yet the nuclear issue continues to struggle for public resonance and political traction . london – one of the most dispassionate features of today ’s international debates – is that the threat facing humanity posed by the world ’s 24,000,000 nuclear-weapons states and by those that would build more of them , or are only too willing to use them , has been consigned to the margins of us policy . us president barack obama captured global attention with his prague speech in 2009 to make a compelling case for a nuclear-armed world .
the report concludes that an estimated $ 3.6 trillion in investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed by 2020 to boost america ’s infrastructure quality by addressing the “ “ significant backlog ” of overdue retention [ and ] pressing for modernization . a 2013 report by the american society of civil engineers gave america a pathetic global grade of d + to its infrastructure . but the american infrastructure state indicates that many decision-makers are not sharing that view . the report has cited many state-specific weaknesses , including michigan ’s own 88 high-hazard dams and the 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the $ 44.5 trillion needed to upgrade the drinking-water system ” ” in california . what it seems self-evident is that an advanced economy requires appropriate , ongoing public investment .
global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products essentially resemble other global commodities markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces harm related to drug use . prohibition , in fact , represents the abdication of regulation ; it is only a matter of law . global drug markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products essentially resemble other global commodities markets ; yet global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that drug markets are bearing more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . whatever is being repressed is effectively unregulated except for criminal organizations .
as it stands , however , we “ fished ” our stocks , until few big ones remain . this is for the best of the reason – the fish that get caught when they are too little will produce little yield . for example , an avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy “ is to protect fish resources by regulating the quantity of marine fish that they take away from the sea by enabling young fish to reproduce , and by making sure that measures are respected . ” to see this , consider northern sea cod in the atmosphere . moreover , fish are not likely to reproduce , undermining fish stocks entirely .
with the russian economy stagnant , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ achilles ’ achilles heel . official surveys insist that 86 % of russia ’s – and typically up to 86 % – supports everything from annexing crimea to its latest term as president . the truth of what people genuinely feel remains impossible to know . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations about the love and admiration of reality .
yet this vulnerability has been largely shaped or at least accommodated by western banks . at the same time , foreign banks ’ infiltration has deprived countries in central and eastern europe of monetary-policy tools , leaving them with little control over extraordinarily rapid credit growth . funding from parent banks , which in earlier stages of the crisis , helped to provide liquidity to eastern european banking systems , now looks increasingly like a liability and potential source of contagion . it was also western europe ’s financial regulators and supervisors , who supposedly sought the imf package , that such practices were among the most widespread . but this was probably true in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package , that such practices were most widespread .
but this strategy did not reduce extremist groups ’ potency , or limit their reach . indeed , there is evidence that an exclusive military response can be wasted , or even do more harm than good . what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . emulate countries elsewhere , african governments have responded to violent extremism primarily by injecting “ hard ” security first . add to that mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , stirring up a huge , growing cohort of unemployed , and digitally connected youth , and the continent offers the ideal conditions for mayhem .
whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another matter , because doing so would undoubtedly create a new revenue source for organized crime . moreover , wherever health-care costs are paid for everyone – including the americas , with their public-health programs for the poor and the elderly – everyone pays the cost of trying to treat the diseases caused by cigarettes . the us tobacco industry is now going on its fight against australia ’s wto legislation . but it appears strange to hold that a state may , in principle , prohibit sales of a product , but perhaps not authorize it only in packs that carries graphic images of the damage it causes to human health . industry fears that a law could be copied in a much larger market , such as india and china .
during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic – which invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks – suffered fewer than ten deaths . during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , as well as investing in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks , suffered fewer than ten deaths . the un framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how the disasters they feared are linked to climate change . in neighboring haiti , a total of 2,000 lives per year was lost . the un framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how the disasters they feared are linked to climate change .
in particular , leaders focused on investment , business , competition , and efforts to inject more women into the labor force ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and on how to target corruption . the g20 ’s signature achievement represents a powerful challenge for the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the un climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . other formal outcomes by the g20 ’s meeting were agreements , backed by more policy detail than most commentators had anticipated – to be sure , – to spur global growth . the g20 ’s signature achievement represents a powerful challenge for the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the un climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . ( all of this confounded australia ’s conservative host government in the fight to keep the topic out even ; the australian public , however delighted , and promptly brought down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for that and other embarrments . )
but reveling in a country ’s monarchical history may prove dangerous . if one wants to impress on russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial as versailles is certain to prove effective . many of those who voted for macron may have been hoping for some twenty-first-century bonaparte . yet reveling in the country ’s monarchical history may prove to be dangerous . can macron learn from his mistakes and reclaim the trust of french voters , who feel humiliated by him ?
for many , the global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point at which america ’s economy turned the corner . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take on supportive steps . and that is precisely what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on the part of america ’s federal reserve . the change has been so notable that many policymakers have fallen into the projecting rebound trap , especially given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , simply humbled by what has proved to be a protracted and complicated recovery process . and they have done so , culminating in one of the best-performing periods of global policy coordination in history , involving both advanced and emerging-market economies .
the recession of 2008 was triggered by the collapse of the real-estate bubble . the us stock market plummeted by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak in 2006 and remains down by almost a third . this enormous loss of wealth created a huge and persistent collapse in the demand for consumption , leading to rising unemployment . the fear feeds on itself , with the prediction that stocks are losing value becomes self-fulfilling . housing wealth in the us has plummeted by 34 % since its peak in 2006 and continues to decline by almost one-third .
as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . for example , the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson did not buy a las vegas review-journal journal in 2015 , or to grab the israeli news media for money . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon – and called for – solutions . free and healthy news media are vital to a well-functioning democracy , and they should be part of a well-functioning democracy . if the latter is to be protected , we must defend the former at all costs .
this will change very rapidly , especially given the option of nato troop increases in afghanistan . from now on , it will require a trait to which it has lacked so far : the leadership and decision-making skills . political camps of the old – the left and the right – are back for the time being . so far , merkel has been forced to come to terms with a weak or non-existent opposition trait . moreover , the victory of montenegro and yellow has defined the alternative : red , murky red , and greens .
this includes the creation of more efficient energy systems and increased us investment in renewables ( which , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . the fourth challenge is changing how we generate , transport , and consume energy . the us can also encourage households to consume fewer energy , with companies reducing the amount of energy that it wastes . fifth , we need to reform how we govern our water resources and water infrastructure in order to regain a few times once and on a city-wide scale . instead , we must integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encouraging dependence on public transportation , and making our streets enjoyable and safe to travel ( particularly for women and disabilities ) .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has some reason to celebrate . but the celebration is likely to be short-lived , at best . he has surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office , following his right-wing likud party gaining a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . in recent years , netanyahu has increasingly undermined israel ’s own international credibility , while compelling the palestinians to live in the occupied territories that a genuine deal with israel is all but impossible . likud – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu undoubtedly – has a good cause to celebrate .
an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female fighter pilot . the savchenko has been on a hunger strike in russia for more than two months to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than those for which i was imprisoned . to be sure , my hope is that the new deal will last , at long last , bring the peace process back into ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the deal lacks any enforcement mechanism , like russia ’s automatic eviction from its swift financial transfer system , should it renege on any aspect of the deal . simply put , believing that the kremlin ’s “ “ goodwill ” would be reckless .
more populous countries have more commercial travel in either direction , but the size is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more than another has only about 70 % more entrepreneurial travelers than another . why wasting precious work time in the air , security checks , and wait for our luggage ? in the ongoing work with dunbahar , michelle coscia , and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some intriguing stylized stylized facts . as a result of inclusive growth research with mastercard and the anonymized donation of data to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some light on this mystery . in the ongoing work with dyany bahar , michelle coscia , and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some striking stylized facts .
too many italians shrugged off their shoulders at berlusconi ’s ’s ’s lies and flaws , figuring that he will soon walk away has done little harm . but he has not gone away and much harm . in confronting trump , there can be no discount , either . the price of liberty , america is fond of saying , is eternal vigilance . the us ca n’t be able to make the same mistake .
specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative authorization for a package of “ realistic ” procedures to rein in the red tape perceived to be hampering investment in extractive industries – the very industries upon which the economy is supposed to become less reliant on them . and , though the us government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong . the peruvian government now has a profound problem , and it needs to do so . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as an international champion of climate champion – the image that some cabinet members have since sought to cultivate – law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . in fact , the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , establish environmental quality standards , and the rein of corporate misconduct through environmental impact assessments .
the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , who has been imprisoned and tortured under the military regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake . when pundits weigh in on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class , as well as the booms in education and connectivity . fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests are putting at risk of what paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of liberty and democracy . but seldom do they appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , the relative newness of hard-won freedoms , and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or colonial rule , mean for individual liberty . ( still less noting the role that women ’s empowerment and feminism played in development . )
how , then , can nato help to do this ? directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do too much . nato is no more than a military alliance than it is today . instead , it is now an military-political alliance that sets out democratic standards for the new eu members and the aspirants . the eu is now the military-political alliance , which sets out democratic standards for its new members and aspirants .
one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . yet trump has also been quick to recognize the leader of the opposition , juan guaidó , as the interim head of state after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , has invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . from the perspective of the number of political prisoners , maduro has joined with the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey . the mafia ’s opponents are being repressed , often brutally so . a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of the class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mob – that has bought military loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-smuggling deals .
yet , so far , efforts at lower financing costs have had a limited impact . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial firms remains close to 7 % , with economic growth edged down from a peak of 7.4 % year on year on year in the past three months , to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the situation may not be dire yet , but it is far from its ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial firms remains close to 7 % , with economic growth edged down from 7.4 % year on year on year over the past three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the pboc now faces the dilemma .
drafted with the un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a palestinian state for the jewish people , based on the 1967 borders with mutually agreed borders and security arrangements . likewise , it would address indirectly the israeli government ’s own demand that palestinians recognize the un “ jewish state . ” while such an approach would certainly fall short of the maximalist palestinian claim , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . drafted by the un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed borders and security arrangements . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy .
robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , particularly with respect to privacy and safety issues . the european parliament has suggested a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in fields such as robotics . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue , rather than taxation . whether or not this is the best solutions now is the subject of much debate ; but , clearly , it will require some type of compromise . given that ongoing change in the means of producing manufacturing has already begun this trend , gates and some in europe have suggested that robots are taxed in order to pay for human services .
heraclitus ’s warning against a bathing in the same sea has twice been lost on us economic ministers , who insist on bathing periodically in contaminated waters . but , in fact , in argentina , everything remains the same , or will become worse off . “ everything . ” so , too , goes the refrain in a notorious argentine song . whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raising concerns over what will happen if argentina is to pay back its foreign debt , and then inevitably to pay back its debt under severe pressure from the international monetary fund and america . “ everything , then , . ”
we have seen this on topics ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers , and refugees , migration , ebola , and an emerging crisis in humanitarian-aid finance . and yet rarely have our existing institutions , including , most importantly , the un – the un – been frailer . while the un still has many strengths , it also has obvious structural vulnerabilities . shanghai , as the current international order becomes more fragmented , robust global-governance institutions are critical to tackling the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . the un is not being broken , but it is in trouble , especially as more countries are treating it as a polite diplomatic afterthought and are seeking solutions to major global problems elsewhere .
in ninety days , these organizers turned out to be more than five million protestors worldwide . in ninety days , these organizers turned out to be more than five million protestors worldwide . the decision to launch june 15 as a day of mass protest was apparently taken up by a meeting of european social forum activists in florence in november . mass action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , based on a loose global blueprint . the internet enabled the rapid worldwide dissemination of organizational plans at an extraordinarily low cost to its organizers .
how better to memorialize that decision , rather than building a prison boom ? according to a spokesperson for america ’s southern command overseeing gitmo , the starving strikers are disillusioned , because they believed obama ’s pledge to close gitmo . indeed , they are being cleared to leave , with only obama having failed to hold on his pledge – and the american congress party ’s failure to legislate its transfer – that keeps them there . in fact , they are being cleared to leave , with only obama having failed to hold on his pledge – and the american congress ’s failure to legislate their transfer – that keeps them there . eight us prisoners now enter the second month of a starvation strike .
it is important to note that such choices are not only china ’s own ; the world also has decisions to make . by working together to reform the global trading system , for example , in ways that bolster dispute resolution and spur inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the gains from a rising china ( and other ) trade are shared broadly . flows of technology and innovation : expanded technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would encourage developing globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; declining flows would undermine global productivity . at the same time , the world can decide how to facilitate more or fewer technology-related flows increasingly subject to safety reviews . according to our simulation , the $ 8-12 trillion could be at risk , depending on the extent that technology flows unleash both innovation and productivity growth .
to be sure , as the economist barry eichengreen has argued in 2007 , technical considerations make exiting the eurozone hard , expensive , and dangerous . but this is only one side of the ledger . using iceland as our measuring stick , the costs to greece of not exiting the eurozone are equivalent to 75 % of gdp , and count . it is hard to believe that , had greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , an economic fallout would have amounted to even one-quarter of that . whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland , which is out of the eurozone , has essentially recovered .
the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency platform , has been unable to secure a second term seven months after an election attests to the widespread opposition to his continuing rule among iraq ’s sunni political class . in this , obama follows the example set by president george w. bush , who has allowed america ’s electoral agenda , rather than an american ally , to refer to iraq ’s continued rule from afghanistan during his first term . there is only one way to account for america ’s administration ’s decision to exert such a diplomatic push in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama , through his pledge during his presidential election campaign , is to disengage from iraq during his first term . when he lost , he demanded a recount , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as supreme leader . last march , after rumors circulated that he lost the vote , maliki asserted that the state security will be endangered if it lost , noting its responsibility for maintaining order .
people begin to behave like even though books have been finely balanced , ignoring . in fact , i do not believe that osborne himself ever linked importance to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . a signal – in this case , the promise of balancing the books – creates reality . when one believes that the narrative , one acts in ways that will turn out to be true . signal – in this case , the promise of balancing books – creates reality .
for its part , novartis recently announced plans to invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years , helping to contain emerging drug-resistant strains of the disease . yet it is also a moment of opportunity , and it is also part of an opportunity . our focus now is on completing the clinical trials of two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . for its part , novartis recently announced its intention to invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains . this is the daunting moment in the fight against malaria .
if sunnis come to believe that the shia and kurds are planning to treat them like second-class citizens , they will have little stake in maliki ’s administration ’s success , and they might again begin to advance their own political interests through other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . worse still , factional conflicts would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity . otherwise , the country ’s different interest groups , like lebanon ’s ’s feuding factions , have been turning on outsiders to negotiate solutions to their problems . there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon as a result of this regard . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army that is operating under the leadership of a large shia-dominated , militant organization .
that ’s not to say that america ’s free-trade partners should be letting off the hook for an unfair approach . america ’s trade deficits with the 101 countries in 2015 were the multilateral problem , stemming from the saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” alas , that plot comes at a time of thicken . trumponomics appears likely to aggravate america ’s outsize saving shortfall in the years ahead . but it does so at a time when there is limited hope for resolving the seemingly chronic us trade deficits and the associated erosion of domestic over-the-counter hiring to those imbalances – as long as america does not start saving again .
across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 4th is viewed as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th in 1967 , with israel defeating armies of three arab countries , conquest of the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just six days . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now busy advocating the same old , totalitarian thinking . their tactic has been to block a clear revision to the iraqi disaster by implying that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting an american occupation of iraq . fahd al-fanek , for example , the member of the former ba’ath party party , is now the columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-ra “ i. ” arab intellectuals and , indeed , the broader arab public , are now busy advocating the same old , totalitarian thinking . arab intellectuals and , indeed , the broader arab public , are now busy pushing for analysis and understanding the lessons of the iraqi earthquake .
given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies a gross resource misallocation . but , at the same time , china ’s persistently chronic surpluses are problematic . more broadly , a country can run current-account deficits or current-account surpluses for decades . and , while the recovery in advanced economies has boosted exports , persistently over-spending , combined with a slower household-consumption growth rate than it was in 2012 , generated investment growth , though rapid , decline to its lowest rate during the last 11 years . meanwhile , a lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) could stem from its rising investment-income deficits .
carbon dioxide emissions from combustion of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . though humanity ’s rising environmental impact manifests itself in a number of ways , climate change has both broadest and longest-lasting effects . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . madrid – by july 29 – under the sustainability organization of the global footprint network ( enp ) , humanity will have used up the earth ’s per capita gdp for an entire year . this “ earth overshoot day ” has been moving forward by the astonishing two months in the last 20 years , and in 2019 will arrive earlier than ever .
and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression was amply demonstrated in all regions of china in 1989 . some people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , much less maoism . some people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . the economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left by the one-party state . the communist government managed to remain in power after tiananmen not only through brute power .
even in an advanced economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at the market rate . moreover , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing in 2014 , or have struggled financially because of the cost of housing ; that number is projected to rise to $ 440 million by 2025 . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue in the emerging world as a whole . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue to do so in the emerging world . globally , the world ’s top 20 cities , with 75 % of them in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new coal-fired electricity units by 2025 . but , given pressing housing and infrastructure shortfall worldwide , this is no longer sustainable .
berkeley – one need not be especially good at hearing to decapitate the dog that is being applied during this year ’s midterm election campaign in the united states . it is appalling to people in foreign countries that may conclude only that the world ’s voters in the world ’s only superpower have become dangerously misguided . and it is appalling to americans , who until recently believed that – or perhaps hoped – were living in a republic founded by the traditions established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt . all of this fear mongering is scarier than normal election-year issues . listen even briefly , understanding that mexicans and the chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their rightful jobs and wants muslims to blow everyone up .
italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronts the pension issue nor the issue of fiscal reform , demonstrates this entirely . yet , if union members are powerful or seniors are in majorities ( in italy , the two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all the labor unions ) , the exact opposite is what is happening . placing in these terms is the problem that gives more to those with the political power of those with the most political power . professor nicola rossi , the economic advisor to premier massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the wish that we give “ less to fathers and more to their sons . ” here is a grand delusion in the budgets and finance ministry in italy .
and , like other human rights , this can not be taken for granted . across the world , an estimated 59 million children and an estimated 65 million adolescents and 65 million adolescents are out of school . behind these figures , children and youth are being denied not just the right , but opportunities : an equitable chance of getting a decent job , escaping extreme poverty , supporting their families , and developing their communities . oslo , for its part , is a human right , and it is a human right that we need to do so . oslo , for its part , is a human right .
moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties rarely benefit from them . yet , african farmers are meeting significant barriers to meeting their potential . smallholder farmers , both from women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . moreover , fewer than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely used . and agriculture ’s gdp growth is more than twice the rate of poverty reduction as growth in other sectors .
clearly , most eu countries ’ governments are not . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? clearly , most eu countries ’ governments are not . gm foods have now been on the books of the americas for more than 12 years . are the risks so high that they can be avoided ?
of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-fifths are in some types of debt facilities , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and us government securities . to be sure , there are some sound economic reasons why lenders have so much insatiable debt appetite . but policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role . the market for derivatives is certainly helping to spread risk more broadly than this superficial calculus implies , but the fundamental turning point stands . imperfect information and difficulty in monitoring firms present significant hurdles to idealized risk-sharing instruments .
nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not follow through on this bilateral bri route with china , but rather to deepen its engagement with italy as a component of the eu ’s 2016 strategy on china . for starters , italy ’s own interests may not be aligned with those of china . whereas italy has received some € 14 trillion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have invested € 10.5 trillion ( $ 14.7 trillion ) in 55 bri countries during the first ten months of 2018 alone , signing bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . moreover , an eu partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy has sorely needs , given constrained lending by its banks . italy ’s exports to china currently stand at about € 13 trillion ( $ 14.7 trillion ) annually , with imports amounting to about € 29 billion .
reliance on commodity revenues to fund their social-welfare programs , these leaders ’ failure to diversify their economies or improve their economic fundamentals . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have brought some short-run benefits , particularly for the poor . yet , such measures have often been plagued by populism , and ultimately do more harm than good . after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , the public ’s patience has worn thin . to be sure , many latin american leaders in recent decades have been rising to power on promises of leveling the playing field .
the us congress ’s departures list from the trump administration is unprecedentedly long . mattis ’s cronies made it clear in televised interviews that what most troubled the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual had not only been able to influence us policy , but also that his standing within the cabinet is being hijacked by trump , a position that he can no longer hold on . the us congress , for its part , expressed outright fear of trump ’s presidency with no guardrail . even that dayan loyalist , the senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , released a statement at thursday afternoon that he was “ aggrieved ” by leaving mattis ( an important sign , many believe , mitch mcconnell , too , ’s private anxiety about trump ’s effect on the republican people ’s party ) . his eloquent resignation letter made it clear that he objected not only to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s ’s own confusion with his allies and adversaries ; his willingness to abandon cronies like the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances like nato .
visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effect of harming international business in china . the regime is set to prove to be a world in which china , once a global power , can stage a spectacular performance , and that its voice will be heeded . but , for china , the top priority is not only to perpetuate economic growth . the government has strengthened its security system and imposed a ubiquitous surveillance system . rather , it has been encouraging growth , while protecting its power as a monopoly .
it will need to become an internationalist left-leaning leader , or an internationalist , right-leaning one . at a time of ceaseless economic disruptions , that will be all the more consequential . at a time of ceaseless economic disruptions , all of them will have to do is . if globalization , on its different dimensions , is to be encouraged by the popular majority , it will need to accompany modernizing social policies that provide effective assistance to those in need . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strongly internationalist bent .
as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , if only 1 % of china ’s smoking population had turned to e-cigarettes , this would mean a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . but , despite significant progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry since 2013 , shenzhen province ’s shenzhen province housed 900 installations of its devices , up to 200 % from 2012 , and accounted for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – conventional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes constitute a homegrown product , invented in china in 2003 . but there is an alternative that could help to appease angry citizens and mitigate revenue losses from an outright ban on smoking : electronic cigarettes . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , if only 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes , this would mean a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users .
agreeing on quantitative , university-applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is straightforward . but countries automatically account for adherence to those targets as a sacrifice : as part of an effort to cut their emissions by x tons , we would lose y million jobs , with gdp falling by $ z billion . because there are no actual sanctions or sanctions on noncompliance when push comes to shove , governments can simply alter their thinking . the reason un climate conferences enduring failure is straightforward : their agendas , centered on voluntary , quantitative targets , are fundamentally flawed . even if a government tries to uphold its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it may fail to acquire the desired results .
while china provides just 4 % of the value added , it supplies its core components to apple at low prices . declining trade costs have enabled us firms to splinter their manufacturing lines geographically , with goods processed and value added in multiple countries along the chain . this would provide the opportunity for chinese smartphone firms to seize the market ’s share of the major players . today , more than 80 % of global trade comprises international supply chains . apple can not construct its iphone out of scratch in an american way , so it would need to seek alternative suppliers , raise its manufacturing costs considerably .
financial economists view such luck-based compensation as signs of governance problems . in high-ceo pay firms , the probability of a ceo ’s turnover after poor performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s duration ) is lower . third , the higher ceo pay slice is linked to weaker accountability for poor performance . in high-ceo pay firms , the probability of a ceo ’s turnover after poor performance ( control of the ceo ’s length of service ) is lower . third , the higher ceo pay slice is linked to weaker accountability for poor performance .
there is only one european country , despite its many diversity . to start , europeans need to foster a community in the postcommunist countries by rebuilding their civil societies . if europeans are to become one , so long as the european union takes up the new postcommunist democracies -- which are in everyone 's interest -- many vital tasks must take place , within the new democracies as well as in europe and the atlantic . there is only one european europe , despite its many diversity . for a living society , it can not be restructured from above .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will merely prolong the conflict . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in its policy toward russia . this approach offers the best chance of bringing about an end to today ’s confrontation , with a compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . to be sure , when cooperation is to work , russia must earn a return to the trust that it has violated , demonstrate its commitment to abide by the treaties and international norms of behavior that it has agreed . the sooner the western convinces russia of its leaders that it will not back down , the sooner the conflict will stop .
today , greece has european creditors , it seems , are poised to abandon its solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some crumbs from the country ’s pensioners . but the us has run a tenth risk … . ” at a minimum , its weaker members will undergo heightened market pressures . today , greece has been able to abandon its solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some of its crumbs from the country ’s pensioners . should they press its demands , forcing greece into an exit , the world will never again trust europe ’s longevity . nine times outside of ten , nothing truly serious is happening – only slightly distress for individuals or groups .
for many , france has long been the epitome of a meritocracy . but , on closer scrutiny , things are not all that straightforward . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or gerontocracy , in which age results one at the very top , or even an aristocracy in which what counts is inherited titles and properties . thus , meritocracy looks preferable , at least at first glance . most of these at the top reaches not only in the civil service and justice department , but also in politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the celebrated grandes écoles .
at america ’s largely elite universities , for example , just about 9 % of us students come from the bottom half of the us population , compared to 74 % in the top quarter . yet , in america , more is being spent on educating wealthy students than on educating the poor . most societies recognize the moral obligation to help ensure that young people are able to live up to their potential . as a result , america is wasting some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities . some countries even impose a constitutional mandate on the equality of opportunity .
but those reserves were concentrated in the south , and thus disappeared when south sudan seceded in 2011 . even as sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability is far from assured . the au has now threatened sudan with its new rulers with suspension from the group unless it transfer power to a civilian authority . for decades , le paz used oil revenues to purchase relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . and , for now , political stability is gone .
as it stands , both of the top two approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supply are both genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . yet questions about such farm holdings , particularly for commodity booms , have persisted . istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich foods for an expanding global population – is daunting , particularly given constraints on key resources such as water and agricultural land . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms , – which use artificial light to grow crops , can generate significant savings – could then pass along the way as a result of consumers . there is now a third solution : vertical farming .
still , we need to confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems and our national budgets need to be based on an `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risk spreads systematically across generations . what this means is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to account for better conditions facing diverse generations , rather than make fixed promises -- which most probably can not be left , in any case -- of some payoff in the future . pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue . what that means , then , is that the problem is political .
but what is being proposed now will force investment to become even less attractive , and increased incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector . lower financing costs for public debt seem to be net won into society , because the us government then saves to service debt-service costs and can keep taxes lower . this may only make european sovereign-debt problems worse , and is weakening its already meager growth prospects . many steps over the past few years have been taken to bolster the banking system ’s regulation . but what is being proposed now will force investment to become even less attractive , increasing incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector .
the plo has succeeded in acquiring european support for the unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . to effect change in israel , the american people are launching different court balloons . the plo has succeeded in acquiring european support for the unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . when palestinians have asked mitchell for assurances that an american will support such a declaration of statehood if the talks are failed , mitchell has responded that such a commitment makes negotiations senseless . instead , americans have their own fantasies of achieving a breakthrough , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is now a major impediment .
these old tensions preassumed new dimensions as the commercial potential of human tissue seizes up with entrepreneurial imagination . the most well-known case regards the body as possessions of john moore , a patient developing hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen at the 1976 ucla school of medicine . his physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or her knowledge or consent , setting contracts , and marketed rights for the swiss drug company to produce drug drugs from an “ mo ” cell line . but few laws are being left to address cell use , tissues , or genes . the commercial calculus behind this business at times causes riots until the anatomy laws permitted by the murderers and alleged non-recourse , thereby reassuring middle - and upper-class individuals that their bodies would not participate .
in berlin , like those other large german cities , taxi drivers of their drivers ’ home flags in their homes , from angola to saudi arabia . yet germans , undaunted by all of them , simply keep celebrating one great soccer party with its newfound friends from around the world . france ’s blackout , red , and gold-standard german tricolor adorns the whole country as never before , but almost nowhere are the nationalist undertones . france ’s black , red , and gold-adorns adorns all over the world as never before , but almost nowhere are the nationalist undertones . indeed , the flags in many nations are flying alongside germany .
in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in a space of just 100 days . thisharrowing experiences have left behind the destroyed property , a bankrupt state , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national essential immunization coverage accounted for less than 30 % . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda demonstrated , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in a space of just 100 days . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda demonstrated , this is entirely possible .
at the london anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders , together with representatives from business and civil-society groups , will have a critical opportunity to take action on that recognition . it has existed as long as the government has ; but , like other crimes , it has become increasingly sophisticated over the past few decades , with its devastating impact on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . for starters , the corruption cripples the prospects of the development process . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders , together with business representatives and civil-society groups , will have a critical opportunity to take action on that recognition . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant , or royals are stolen at the source , or the private sector monopolized the narrow networks of its cronies , populations are unable to recognize their potential .
in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled by a new grievance . the protests began when the government attempted to enact an amnesty legislation that would have overturned the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’s brother and ptp ’s founder , overthrown by the army in 2006 on charges of corruption and abuses of power . but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to roll back an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . ( it , too , would have superseded the murder charges that have been brought against the country ’s democratic party boss , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) yingluck ’s government refused to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to change the senate from a semi-appointed chamber .
if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest group in the european parliament , those appointments could represent a abrupt break from the past . eu member states are more divided nowadays than ever before , even on the most fundamental issues concerning the european project . the broad pro-european consensus in the past has been superseded by resurgent nationalism . new presidents from the european commission , the council of the council , and the european central bank will be appointed , with the union ’s new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy . moreover , east has become increasingly polarized toward the west , with northern against the south .
the recent ebola outbreak in west africa highlighted the urgent need for a stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care system in the developing world . freetown , sierra leone – like the world bank and the world health organization – often urge developing countries to invest in domestic health systems . but , while rushed to construct clinics and other health-care facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to securing universal health coverage , this has not turned out to be true . in my frequent visit to rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a few health-care facilities that communities could accomplish without . yet , when countries rush to build more clinicians , the resulting facilities are typically hastily constructed and missing , delivery , and staff needed to deliver vital health services effectively .
wilson , for example , would most likely concur with trump that the degree of openness in global markets today is excessive . but wilson ’s solution would most likely target the development and implementation of improved regulation through a rules-based multilateral process . likewise , he would probably advocate advancing us fiscal policies with a focus on advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the wealthiest companies and households funding , say , infrastructure development , high-quality education , and universal health care . to be sure , had wilson been alive today , perhaps he would agree to trump on some issues , even though his proposed solutions would have been very different . it is indeed problematic that american banks and firms can export capital , technologies , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for domestic costs .
when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of our labor force became proficient in english . yet , in march 2010 , in a movement that i believe was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” a plan to make english-speaking our corporate language within the next two years . unsurprisingly , some on my team have been apprehensive ; others , especially those outside a firm , thought that i was slightly mad . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are pushing for our advice on how to construct a global mark headquartered in japanese capital . the goal has been to lay the groundwork for global expansions in an industry that are competing aggressively for internet-savvy talent .
tax hikes and public-spending cuts are still necessary ; there is no avoiding that reality . europe has ’s second vicious spiral , which runs from fiscal consolidation to slowing growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . but that , at least , is preventing the debt problem of creating the banking problem , which in turn worsens the debt problem without ending up . the ecb ’s decision to give banks unlimited liquidity will not solve governments ’ debt problems ; nor is its intent . but it at least precludes the debt problem of creating a banking problem , which in turn worsens the debt problem without ending them .
indeed , india now holds some of the best engineers in the world , technicians and medical professionals alike . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european foreign policy are contributing to the emergence of an estimated 60 % of the world ’s new drug in the americas , compared to about 40 % just ten years ago . this sterility and inertia make europeans less and less interesting to the american people . so america ’s sights are turning elsewhere : to china , with its 1.3 billion or so people and an economy growing at 8-10 % , on average , and to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual gdp growth . add economics to that recipe just as much .
these tribes may have been isolated , but the demise of them will have severe consequences . when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami hit , more than a quarter-million people were killed in just 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes that rely on conventional warning systems have suffered from unknown casualties . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises understates , indigenous societies have turned directly toward loggers , miners , crop planters , overseas % of global diversity , and are playing a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . with their penchant for – and an understanding of – nature , such groups serve as the world bank ’s environmental sentinels , safeguarding about 80 % of global diversity , and playing a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but they are likely to die far more quickly if we suddenly match them , bring with america ’s advanced pathogens , against whom they have no antibodies .
but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainties stemming from globalization . i have seen firsthand their peoples ’ eagerness and hope for this momentous period . it is , of course , not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty has been overwhelmingly usurped by the former soviet union , are particularly susceptible to external efforts to shape their decision-making and hold a stronger sense of national identity than any other eu country . that is precisely why understanding their position today is so difficult . i have seen firsthand their peoples ’ eagerness and hope for this momentous time .
it is humankind ’s product of collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the well-being of everyone . none of specific countries , or even group , created international maritime laws , as it now exists . but what , precisely , does that mean ? if we distill the spirit that we infused into international law over ages , and then reformulate it as three principles , the nation-state rule of law becomes a matter of common purpose . nowadays , many of the benefits of humanity depend on the sea from the indo-pacific to the indian oceans remain fully open .
moreover , people who live in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals face a higher risk of being targeted through sexualized violence – for example , enforced pregnancies . when perpetrators of sexual violence are challenged in high-profile settings like the un , it becomes difficult for individual states to disregard activists ’ demands . to be sure , effective solutions must consider the local context . sexual violence may take many forms ; an understanding of its potential purpose can help predict and impede its use . for example , the armed groups that use force as recruiting tool is more likely to commit to egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means .
a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed to respect the history , culture , and traditions of all of their constituent peoples . but europe can succeed in this task only if its diverse constituent cultures do not seal themselves off from one another . because an enlarged union becomes a reality in only two months , the imperative is to develop concepts for a cultural understanding that contribute to the successful integration of the new members . the draft constitution , which recently failed to gain acceptance in the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect the cultural heritage ; it obliges the union to work actively to protect , uphold , and advance europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward to convey .
to be sure , global savings and consumption patterns have already undergone profound change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china trying to re-establish an internal balance . that model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital , rather than simply relying on foreign investment . the doubling of average us household income by 2020 , a target set by the chinese communist party ( ccp ) in november , is likely to loosen a $ 64 trillion dollar ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing-power-parity terms , with china ’s enormous domestic market gradually becoming the new long-term driver of both domestic and international growth . as a result , china has been responsible for the saving side , whereas america ’s consumption accounts ultimately turn the chinese into america ’s creditor . to be sure , global savings and consumption patterns have already undergone profound change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china trying to re-establish an internal balance .
after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that corporations in europe , like america , are evading a meritocratic hiring and promoting women to the top positions , regardless of how much of the soft power they impose . i do not enjoy either quotas ; they run counter to my belief in the meritocracy . but when one regards the obstacles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it looks like a fairer world needs to be temporarily mandated . i understand reding the reticence of ’s reticence , as well as its frustrations . after all , there are four decades of evidence now demonstrating that corporations in europe , like america , are evading a meritocratic hiring and promoting women to the top positions , regardless of how much “ soft ” ” ” ” is placed to put them into account .
new delhi – when i competed with india over the past parliamentary election in 2009 , i was something of a rarity . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seats or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i entered a race with no political “ godfather ” of all . by contrast , all other candidates in my constituency – indeed , most of them contenders across the country – have dedicated their full lives to policy , many of them since their student days . i was not born into a political family ; i did not have a seat or a political fiefdom to inherit ; and i entered a race without a godfather . new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india for the past parliamentary election – was something of a rarity .
even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . ultimately , however , the experiment did not succeed , either . in those countries , the government at any given time represents whichever party won the latest round in an ongoing culture war . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state now constitutes an extra “ 50-50 ” society : half of the cosmopolitan , half-communitarian . the fdp has abandoned talk beyond the frustrations that , as its leader christian lindner put it , “ the four discussion partners do not have a common vision for a country ’s modernization or a common foundation of trust . ”
rising awareness of the problem is also critical – particularly in the developing world , where illiteracy , poverty , and a lack of age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers . for starters , every country needs to define the crime of online child trafficking and integrate it into their domestic penal codes , coupled with tough punishments for violators . parents need to build trust bridges so that their children feel empowered to open up the challenges they face . likewise , all recruitment activities , advertising , and financial transactions linked to online child trafficking should be criminalized as well .
such reforms are vital to improve guyana 's life prospects . special attention must be devoted to rural regions , and those with special needs , the often-overlooked youth segment . if more teenagers had access to sexual education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives cut off by pregnancies . moreover , communities need to increase access to contraceptives and other sexual-health services ; one path to doing so would be to revitalize or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . such spaces should be opened after school and on weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults .
but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , an independent job is likely to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to both technological breakthroughs and individual preferences . mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of working-age populations would prefer to earn income , both primary and secondary , from independent work . whereas digital job platforms are still in the early stages of their development , and employ only about 15 % of independent workers , they are proliferating and expanding rapidly . many are lower-income workers , who would otherwise have been unemployed . this indicates that stronger economic – and thus employment growth would diminish the number of workers engaged in independent work .
the demand for the abolition of censorship was one of the first political slogans of the polish march 68 . crucially , the protesters were not calling for a free election . the demands of the freedom of the assembly , and the right to organize , were followed by it . in this they were the realists , but demands a measure of civic control over the authorities , in both the political and economic sphere . one slogan was “ no free ” bread without freedom .
just when the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction from chronically weak recoveries , a shift toward negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis . the enactment of the negative interest rates that were originally initiated in europe in 2014 , and now embraced in japan , represents a major turning point for the central banking sector . previously , emphasis has shifted to boosting aggregate demand , primarily by loosening borrowing costs , but also by forcing the wealth effects of appreciating financial assets . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) , and now negative real interest rates , one futile attempt begotten another . new haven , in what might well turn out to be a definitive act of desperation , is abdicating an effective way to govern economies .
that would not have happened had the price mechanism still underpinning climate-change policy . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has also turned out to be ruinously expensive . as a result , demand is now falling short of any binding constraint . indeed , permits have fallen to less than three euros per ton in april 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant . that would have not happened had the price mechanism still underpinning climate-change policy .
it will obviously matter for the fund to focus on global imbalances , rather than on bilateral imbalances . china may wish that oil from the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , but those in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – might have a greater interest in gucci handbags than it does in china ’s high-technology manufactured goods . in an increasingly multipolar trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often hit current-account surpluses with the rest of the world . of course , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances , rather than on bilateral imbalances . while china may want the middle east ’s oil and trade surplus with the us , these bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contributions to global imbalances .
asked about their emotions earlier this day , most americans ( 55 % ) in 2018 said that they had experienced stress during much of the day , almost half ( 45 % ) said that they felt too scared by much , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they were feeling angry about the anger . stress , alarm , and anger all hit us highs in 2018 . america ’s seventh-most stressed population in 2018 was less stressed than greece , the philippines , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . those stress on stress , worry , and anger all hit us often-high highs in 2018 . america ’s seventh-stressed population in 2018 was less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela .
they need to internalize the culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical standards of behavior . in order to this end , banks should make their values and cultures integral to hiring , firing , and supporting decision-making . continual reminders and repetition is vital , and it is imperative , and it should be impossible for banks to do so . employees need to understand instinctively what might happen , and what should never be done . a written code highlighting the commercial advantages of ethical enterprise behavior , and the adverse consequences of falling short , is part of that effort , and can help to preserve and reinforce a culture ; but the code itself is inadequate .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom won the vote right , and today most women in the developed world are enfranchised . but , in many developing countries , the kind of backlash that british suffragettes confronted a hundred years ago , rooted in misogyny persists . at first blush , pakistan appears to be progressive . that is certainly true in pakistan , where a general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate change . the law has enabled women to vote since 1956 , almost ten years after independence from britain .
the ecb famously raised interest rates twice during the 2011 financial crisis , just when the euro crisis made recession and unemployment rising to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . in some cases , the outcome was unexpected : some lending rates actually rose . none foresaw the crisis ; and , in very few countries , there are some semblance of full employment has been renewed employment growth . it was to be obvious that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models had both formal models and mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking that they thought they had been badly wrong . they went on to take advantage of old discredited models , perhaps moderately modified ones .
because he had no son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo in order to do the job . but mao ’s death did at least bring an end to the caesarism era in china today . its members that included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his last wife , had been just as inept at governing as kim , but following the catastrophe of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them was too prevalent in the military , and other state institutions had been too prevalent in recent years . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then from marxism to capitalism , was fortunate to win china ’s citizens . they , and the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) were soon ousted .
we in ukraine have learned this truth from the harsh lessons of the communist era . in ukraine , freedom of speech was on communism ’s decline , restored overnight . in ukraine , freedom of speech was on the decline of communism , which restored it overnight . but reviving civil society – the many mutually reinforcing ways in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , because peoples in egypt and tunisia will soon find out . though communism might , each now and then coexist with private assets , and occasionally with private enterprise , it can never coexist with civil society .
even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of a collective defense , under article 5 of the nato treaty ? then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies reaffirmed that an act of aggression actually took place , despite putin ’s denials . finally , imagine how trump may respond . and would putin make another “ unbelievable deal ” to assist us investigators from getting to the bottom up ? would he call on putin to ask what ’s going on ?
so 2019 could turn out to be yet another year of robust global growth . europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth could be placed above trend , just as it continues its long , sluggish recovery from its debt crises earlier this decade . yet these outside risks are not making the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . the baseline scenario for the us , for example , is still robust growth . and china ’s economies have been proving doubters for many years .
this small victory turned into a major defeat for shareholders , when the sec , rather than performing any such analyses and redesigning the rule , opted for a permanent standstill . at a conference last december , i asked sec chair mary shapiro , when her agency planned to reintroduce the rule . argued by eugene scalia , the son of the us supreme court antonin scalia , the case against the sec , a case against the sec won in america ’s court of appeals , dc , on a technicality , the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . i have even been proposing that cost-benefit analysis for the sake of a free trade agreement . but she did acknowledge that the sec had many other goods on its agenda , setting the issue on the back burner , a polite way of saying that the sec , like tiananmen square ’s heroic students , gave up under irresistible pressure .
in short , the major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to the financial crisis , but they did not overreact . the european central bank ’s response was analogous to the fed ’s , but less expansionary monetary policy , with monetary policy easier than the headline inflation rate would indicate , is reasonable . and , in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . yet , these are not normal times , either . indeed , the fed ’s monetary policy was inadequate to stave off an american recession , though one that remains so modest that many are questioning whether it qualifies as a true animal .
shockingly , he declared , did not know who actually won . the elections are a disaster for kenya , but the american international community ’s response is no less distressing . days later , the eck publicly admitted that kibaki ’s supporters had pressured him to announce a “ “ final ” outcome ” for the first time , despite a clear demonstration of the vote ’s rigging . when the opposition sought to question these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly proclaimed kibaki ’s winner . likewise , the eu ’s observers announced that the election tally did not meet basic international standards .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , particularly in germany . but it is hard that monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of trade barriers . moreover , a host of risk-management problems makes such indicators hard to interpret such indicators as these are difficult to interpret . given that market-based measures are currently running a conflict with most other key economic data as well , little weight should be attached to them . it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , particularly in germany .
as a recent morgan stanley report highlighted , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rate is inadequate to sustain large domestic r & d organizations , making the industry ’s current operating model financially unviable . yet pharmaceutical companies continue to hold assumptions about the limits of precompeting pre-competitive collaboration that are needed to challenge it . at first sight , it looks counter-intuitive that firms would seek to share the data and potentially yield competitive returns . the drugs that make it into the marketplace must fund the costs of those that did not make it into the marketplace . but this presupposes that owning such data actually does produce a competitive advantage , and that a closed operating model is sustainable financially .
despite tightening economic noose , america has imposed sanctions on all firms doing business with iran ’s central bank and the european union ’s plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports by late january , many of the nuclear experts are now estimating that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb . attempting to force iran back into steadily mounting sanctions has failed to produce results . the us market has already accepted its measure of past tensions , driving up the prices of some of its oil deals to their highest levels in just eight months . while the iranian government might most likely be deterred by the use of a nuclear-weapons capability , the price of a nuclear-armed iran could well become a regional arms race in the region , with saudi arabia potentially following the example of turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s current oil prices is a appalling scenario .
the levy is the easy way to spread the political and financial costs of the crisis , from some to all eu members . post-crisis harmonization harmonization in the eu means that it will now be more expensive everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or an unexpected change in interest rates . this levy , strongly backed by those countries whose financial sectors are in post-crisis tatters , is hard to swallow up the eu states that have not intervened to bail out their banks . the same is true to account for the instance of the derivatives trading system . if implemented , bank capital will become scarcer , credit flows slower , and bank crashes higher in pretty stable countries , simply because others have spent a fortune supporting their financial systems , and because the european commission has never misses the chance of unifying europe-wide rules .
learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , sets partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that link job seekers to particular work , primarily entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . at & t , california ’s community university system is already working with learnup to give students access to the skills required to fill the available local job opportunities . and , indeed , once candidates completed training , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already includes a few big firms . at & t is offering scholarships through partner not-for-profit institutions , and providing paid an internships for up to 100 graduates . employers are switching a bill with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants .
porto – a military coup that overthrown egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and resulted in arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the region , poses an enormous danger not only to egypt ’s democratic transition , but to the democratic hopes of the entire arab world as well . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood also fell prey to its own flaws , particularly its failure to reach out to the country ’s secular opposition , elements of which contributed to its elections . morsi ’s government appeared to be incapable of understanding that a lean electoral majority is insufficient , particularly nowadays . farc president mohamed morsi ’s government was struggling to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the tremendous public expectations generated by the 2011 arab revolution , whose protagonists sought not only freedom , but also economic development and social justice . having engaged in massive popular support , the muslim brotherhood is signaling the tremendous hardship that the muslim brotherhood faces during its first turn in power .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial , accused of complicity in the rwanda genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people have been killed between april and july 1994 , started in paris . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue to emerge in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than almost anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope . sadly , mass killings in africa continue to occur . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state , massacres of civilians continue to take place , particularly around libor city . and french military interventions in the central african republic have failed to place an end to severe inter-communal violence there .
moreover , with mounting concerns about america ’s fiscal policy sustainability , europe has an enormous opportunity to play an ever-larger role as a reserve currency . surely , europeans would lose their traction as a badly needed counterweight to america ’s global economic policy . fortunately , europeans are unlikely to wait so long to begin moving ahead once more . europeans may not mind that right now ( one sees more obama ’s t-shirts in europe than they are in the us ) , but they may not be so pleased with the fact that george iii comes along . fortunately , europeans are unlikely to wait so long to begin moving ahead .
on the other hand , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and reduced corporate-tax rates . the third arrow is not the traditional industrial-policy-based approach . a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is the expansion of the labor force – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast . this implies that it has been inadequate to target growth until the deflation gap narrowed greatly – up to now . a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force , a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast .
the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense is progress “ at the margin , ” but the speed of technological change pushes us to expect just as rapid advances in human affairs are far from true . what is certain is that a vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of the chaos emerging from gaza that israel has vacated itself and the collapse of the palestinian authority in the eyes of our eyes . nor will the emergence of yet another providential figure come easily . many in the us seem to believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled simply by an providential man , with all the attendant hopes and perils that this entails . the natural course of history in its most optimistic sense is progress “ at the margin , ” but the accelerating pace of technological change pushes us into expecting just as rapid advances in human affairs .
the uk ’s leadership in these areas has been greatly appreciated – and would be sorely missed should the bri decide to leave . still , the eu has played a leading role by designing key eu policies , including actions relating to the single market , overseas development assistance , trade , and climate change . the uk is in no position to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other eu member states ’ political will to push ahead . so , while the cameron administration ’s support for deeper european integration has been welcome , the eu can not and will not emerge from outside and according to british interests . indeed , last year , negotiations on the “ fiscal compact ” ” ” should already demonstrate to cameron the difficulty of exercising an so-called national veto .
in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was dispatched to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered the tiananmen square 30 years earlier . in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was dispatched to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered the tiananmen square massacre 30 years earlier . was the administration really not predicting that assad , like his father before him , had reacted to a popular violence uprising ? yet they will fault the american people for not comprehending the greater war . it is already becoming clear that the obama administration had no idea of what it was bargaining for when , without thinking about what to come next , it called in 2011 for assad ’s removal .
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange-rate regime , china ’s central bank , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is under downward pressure to float the currency . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability wo n’t be easy . if a country with a tight exchange rate and an open-ended capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , then the rise in domestic interest rates gives market players the incentive to borrow against foreign currencies and to turn them into a domestic currency for foreign investment in domestic assets . all economics students are learning the mundell-fleming model , under which an economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movements , and an independent monetary policy at the same time . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank , in its bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling the domestic currency , particularly in the us dollar , until interest rates and money supply return to their initial levels .
us presidential candidate hillary clinton has an even more focused suggestion : a 15 % tax on corporate profits , which firms distribute to workers over the next two years . us presidential candidate hillary clinton has an even more focused suggestion : a 15 % tax on corporate profits , which firms distribute to workers over the next two years . to reduce costs and avoid abuses , earnings totaling more than 10 % of gdp would be ruled out ; the overall sum that is offered to individual firms would grind away ; and safeguards against data-sharing , raise , and other benefits would be established . us presidential candidate hillary clinton has an even more focused proposal : a 15 % tax credit on corporate profits , which firms distribute to workers over the next two years . to curb costs and avoid abuses , profits totaling more than 10 % at the top of the worker would be ruled out ; total amounts that are offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against revenue-sharing , raise , and other benefits would be established .
and that message is a straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even though – like abyzov and ishayev – they have retired out of public services and no longer command any longer . nor are most russians seeing the connection between prosecution of key figures and authorities ’ credibility . on the other hand , people seem to identify with putin ’s ’s ’s ’s message that the establishment is at last tackling corruption . but it is the message to russia that is more pertinent . moreover , selective repression has become harsher than ever .
and it explains how inadequate metrics have resulted in deficient policies in many areas . a new report emphasizes several topics , such as trust and insecurity , that have only a short time addressed by mismeasuring our lives , and explores a few others , such as inequality and sustainability . the new report emphasizes several topics , such as trust and insecurity , that were only briefly addressed by mismeasuring our lives , and explores a few others , such as inequality and sustainability , more profoundly . it also endorsed a commission ’s successor , high-level expert groups on measuring economic performance and social progress . last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , insight , and policies in incheon , south korea released its report beyond gdp : measuring what counts for both economic and social performance . improved indicators would reveal the high-impact and perhaps protracted effects of a deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and well-being , in which case policymakers may not have been so enamored with austerity to lower fiscal deficits but reduce national wealth , appropriately measured , even more so .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes speculated about reforming and regulating financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself “ “ “ “ moved ” toward … mak [ ing ] ... ” moreover , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting toward anyone who is completely exempt from the gambling instinct ; the whilst it must be willing to pay for that propensity … . ” it is for these reasons that we seem to have seemed frozen behind past generations , or two whenever we contemplated reforming our systems of financial regulation . and it is why , even in the face of a profound financial crisis , we remain frozen today . seventy-enty-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about reforming and regulating financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and find it “ “ “ going over ” to … . mak [ ing ] ... ” but he immediately drew back : the reality that every individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ liquid ’ ( while that ’s can not be true for all investors collectively ) calms ’ calms ’ calms his nerves and makes it much more willing to run risk … . ” moreover ,
enormous subsidies meant that america has become the world ’s largest manufacturer of ethanol . thus , us foreign producers can not compete unless their cost is $ 1.05 per gallon of imports that are less than those of us american producers . this contrasts sharply with the $ 0.51 per gallon of subsidies that american firms ( a huge fraction of which go to a single us firm ) get to ethanol . yet , despite this massive advantage , some foreign firms may still make it in the american market . perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.0.54 per gallon of imports , compared with no oil tariff , a mere $ 0.5 per us gasoline tax .
moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate that the first time a slight majority in favor of legalization , opponents remain vehement . the legal and political challenge implied is no small matter : marijuana remains the illicit substance under the us federal legislation and the international covenant that america has embraced . just as significant as it may be , us president barack obama has ’s reaction to the colorado and washington vote , both of the states that he won easily in his re-election bid . the results have not only triggered a conflict between america ’s federal legislation and state legislation ; they are also signaling a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that concerning same-sex marriage . on other issues , notably immigration , obama rejects claims by the states of ’ own rights , insisting on a federal authority .
regional and religious tensions have been on the rise since houphouet ’s death , and have been aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined ethnic discrimination . some four million northerners have been denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they are offspring of neighboring muslim migrants . some four million northerners have been denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they are offspring of neighboring muslim migrants . the outcome has been catastrophic , because the ethnic rivalries sharpened . whatever else is said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves little doubt about the social stability benefits seen in the ivory coast during this period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colonies .
in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be a civic right . in the long run , they probably also want the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is in power , with a clear agenda at hand , and are exploiting the fact that education in europe is the responsibility of national governments , rather than the brussels-based institutions . political trustworthiness determines who can learn and study what about a country and its past . these governments want to establish an educational system , according to which states alone choose which research fields is necessary and socially vital .
mark leonard , the director of the european council ’s council of foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , has noted that interdependence , formerly the economic boon , has now become a threat just as well . fragile institutions have incited a political backlash and the risk of catastrophe on many fronts . mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , has noted that interdependence , formerly an economic boon , has now become a threat just as well . this has left people everywhere , the rich and poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failing states to failed banks , over-fishing into under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has been instrumental but ca n’t address effectively . dubai – as many have noted in recent years – is in retreat .
so , not only has china become central to any aspect of the global financial and economic system now prove its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , because the most notable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victories over the tamil tigers is not its cruelest nature ; it is the fact that china has given president mahinda rajapaska with both military supplies and the diplomatic cover it needs to prosecute the current war . london – for two decades – chinese diplomacy has been guided by the notion of a country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” on sri lanka , beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” have been finalized . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s administration would have neither the wherewithal nor the will to ignore world opinion in its insulting tigers .
when alexander hamilton , america ’s first treasury secretary , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he believed that this would cement a new american nation . germany has the largest exposure by far among countries rescuing the eurozone ’s crisis-stricken eurozone countries , and thus helping to ease austerity more than any other country . but debt mutualizing gave rise to enormous moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively . george soros underestimates the risk that debt-mutualization would pose for the eurozone ’s future . should europe break up and gipsic countries default , germany alone would lose roughly € 545 trillion , almost half the global sum mentioned , given that the bundesbank bore the bulk of net payments in the name of gipsic countries reflected in targetbalances .
in terms of global health alone , the year has begun to emerge as one of an unrelenting tragedy . beyond the stories of hospitals in conflict zones , the zika virus has emerged as an increasingly existential threat . hopes for the respiratory syncytial virus vaccine have been dashed . there have also been proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes , or “ superbugs , ” ” ” ” ” ” the ongoing revival of yellow fever and the resurgence of polio in nigeria that has previously been declared polio-free . hong kong , looking back on 2016 , may not seem much to celebrate .
during the new deal era , us regulators included the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . during the new deal era , regulators included the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . this dynamic can be seen in a trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , which have been accelerating since the 2008 financial crisis and reducing access to services in lower-income communities . history also demonstrates the persistent problem of financial exclusion whenever the demands of universal services are absent . but those mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks rapidly shifting away from low-wage financial services and toward higher-capital activities .
in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american people ’s congress that direct talks between israel and palestine had gone “ poof ” a “ major barrier ” ” ” ” to the two-state solution . by december 2016 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american people ’s congress that direct talks between israel and palestine went “ “ “ “ poof settlement ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis at the west bank . that , too , has not been lost on all of america ’s leaders . it is not hard to imagine the need for palestinian negotiators to feel that they had to feel as they drove by massive israeli settlements on territories that they worked to include in an independent state . after all , the israeli government has not only allowed the supposedly non-authorized outposts to exist , but it has also delivered them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection .
new haven : across europe and america , men in the black tie and women in kenzo and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , the glyndebourne , and the glimpses . once again , the state ’s coffers are tapped to encourage these underprivileged retreats . does its grandeur mean that a state should subsidize it ? perhaps then , too , is the time to ask , once again , an essential question : should the state continue to ladle up generous subsidies to such an elite activity ? consider the case of incontrovertible beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholics .
but , as we have known it , foreign policy is essentially a manifestation of a nation ’s state or a superpower . so the key feature of eu integration is that governments can not know in advance what they are letting themselves in for . not surprisingly , therefore , foreign-policy integration has not made much progress . in defense and warfare case , unpredictability includes opportunities for young men dying in action . this contrast underlines the realization that the great achievements of eu integration have taken hold in this no-man – a land that lies between absolute national independence and total loss of sovereignty within the confederation .
one thing that i hope becomes obvious at the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries afflicted by fragility and conflict . lebanon often struggles to attract financing due to its own status as middle-income countries , but that label is misleading , because it fails to account for the serious structural vulnerabilities that predate the syrian crisis or the vast influx of resident populations comprising refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq living in abject poverty . we are faced with a shortfall of $ 100 million for a new school year . without additional aid from the international community , our vision will not be realized – despite robust political will and rigorous planning . one thing i hope will become obvious at the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict .
of course , part of the problem is that we are making resolutions to make only stuff that we are not likely to do otherwise otherwise . that , in turn , makes the failure of failure a distinct possibility , and we are also using the occasion of a new year to try to change the behavior that may prove to be the single most difficult to make . what does this tell us about the human nature of humans , and our capacity to live either prudently or ethically ? anorexic alone would resolve to devour ice cream at least once a week , with only a workaholic determined to spend more time before tv strikes . so we are using the occasion of a new year to try to change the kind of behavior that is perhaps the most difficult to make .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed is now overestimating the strength of america ’s economy for 11 consecutive years to come . if each year of the fed ’s forecasting were any coin toss , the us would now have eleven heads in a row , with zero tails . clearly , the fed needs a profound look at its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes . the odds that it will happen are one in the 2,048 years . elementary math dictates that a credible forecast should at least overestimate half of the time and undershooting half that time .
the question , then , is not whether some patients had previously given up with the diagnosis apparently do not have it upon retinting , but rather how many . how high the percentage should have been before claiming that over-diagnosis is an important problem and a value judgment . any study that seeks to determine whether psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will find that some patients with a condition do not have it upon reinterview again . such is the nature of the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnosis . but we now think that the over-diagnosis rate for over 50 % crosses a clinical significance threshold .
indeed , during the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as hoped-for a panacea . in many previous banking crises , it was a country or a hit region hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . this time around , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and a banking crisis looms worldwide . indeed , during the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as hoped-for a panacea . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they may find at the problem , but they will take time for deleveraging from a boom to run course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s sweeping travels in europe this year have not drawn as much attention as they should , given that he is the key theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . as more countries turn on their own to “ nationalist ” autocracies , and with the rise of illiberal democracies under strongman rule , the tide of nationalism has become an ideological common denominator . bannon now wants to construct a confederation of euroskeptic nationalist parties . by joining forces with french far-right national front leader marine le pen , herself an open rebuke from russian president vladimir putin , that bannon appears to have in mind a new kind of “ neo-nationalist ” international . and yet one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his political project anywhere else than in america .
macartney ’s refusal to conform to the chinese imperial protocol by falling to kowtow to the kaiser because it was not required to do the same thing to its own sovereigns . one famous incident at the end of the eighteenth-century eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the imperial court of china . that , too , was very much the case for keeping confronted with ” ” ” : the chinese anticipated tribute ; the british lord insisted on an equal status for his king . the diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was the notion that sprang straight from just a hundred years earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london in london . as a result , that mission broke out .
during those five years , the s & p investor earns an extra 2 % annually for a cumulative gain of ten % . but , when the interest rate on ten-year bonds rises to 5 % , the bond ’s price falls from $ 100 to $ 69 . assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains essentially unchanged over the next five years , and then rises from 2 % to about 5 % . during those five years , the investor earns an extra 2 % annually for a cumulative gain of ten % . here ’s how arithmetic works for an investor , who rolls over ten % of us treasury bonds over the next five years , thus earning 2 % more annually than it would by investing in the us treasury bills or bank deposits .
only the world with both political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries , which remain by far the largest hydrocarbons consumers , can trigger globally change . such a decision would be directed not against individual mobility , but against the dissipation of the scarce resources that are needed to generate synthetic materials . moreover , political leaders should not privilege any special technologies at all . as a result , the g-8 countries should agree to no longer license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 . change must start with the transportation sector , which accounts for over half of the current level of oil consumption – a share that is likely to skyrocket in the future .
on the other hand , for the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets for precisely the opposite purposes : preventing the renminbi from falling too sharply against the us dollar . like part of a broader effort to take china into the task of supposedly “ raping ” the united states economy through an unfair trade policy , trump has now renewed accusations that the country manipulates its currency as a way to shore up its exports . pronouncements like statements like these are just as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . ithaca – us president donald trump ’s administration has again been able to turn facts on their head . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation is not backed by facts .
new delhi – at the end of last month , when two indian states and the country ’s national capital organized themselves into the ransom of rioting mobs are protesting their spiritual leader ’s two conviction on two counts of raping petty girls , many indians have found themselves confronting a series of painful truths about their country . the leader who has spurred these protests is gurmeet with singh , one of the more prominent of a few “ godmen , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” muslim , and sikh names have been followed by the word for “ human ” ” ” ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . and it has a reputation for having sexually exploiting its female followers . in 2002 , two of these supporters mustered the courage to press for charges . new delhi – when two of india ’s states and the country ’s national capital – held onto the ransom of rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping petty girls , many indians have found themselves confronting a series of painful truths on their country .
some american policymakers , on the other hand , remain convinced that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions . but a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad by the us on behavior indicates that eu sanctions would result in more commercial diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from declining levels of european exports to iran . to be sure , some us imports would become more expensive for iran ; but the economic effects of such sanctions would remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would not miss the chance to take advantage of unilateral us measures for propaganda purposes , arguing that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with its imperialist states bent on depriving his country of its technological progress . for these reasons , europeans favor a new security council resolution , even if its actions are weaker than what the united states or the eu could unilaterally impose .
and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility toward liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . abe and his allies try to quash this influence . his efforts to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride to his wartime track record , and discredit the “ elitist ” mainstream media like the left-of-center newspapers asahi shimbun , won him praise for donald trump ’s former chief of staff , stephen bannon , calling abe an “ trump ” in front of trump . none could have been more identified with the political elite than abe , the grandson of the warsaw pact ’s cabinet minister , and the later prime minister ’s son , as well as the son of the foreign minister . postwar japanese democracy had been influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that consciously sought to distance japan from its wartime nationalism .
african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst sides of multinational corporations : energy , mineral ores , and precious metal firms go where resources are , rather than where it ’s ’s ’s pleasant to be working . ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy , and maintaining a positive public image . but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationships with global corporations need not be nearly as limited . as one former chief executive in the region told me , “ the goal ” has always been straightforward : throw assets out of the ground , and shut out of the country as cheaply and with as little fuss about it as possible . african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst sides of multinational corporations : energy , mineral ores , and precious metal firms go where resources are , rather than where it is ’s ’s ’s pleasant to work .
the first large city to boom was london , beginning in 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , the new york times , and sydney around sydney in 1997 to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming at a relatively high rate since 2000 ; prices in most of them are at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now , domestic-price growth is faltering in some of these cities in some of these cities . this has been a huge windfall for homebuyers , but it has hurt anyone planning to buy .
after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are becoming increasingly aware of how to safeguard their own economic and social interests through their reliance on the rule of law . control also relies on internet users ’ demography , much of which belongs to china ’s economic elite , and tends to embrace the internet as a component of its newfound consumer lifestyles than as an instrument of political or social revolutions . what is surprising is that the government ’s surveillance mechanisms have been largely efficient . but it also fuels profound social shifts , which are rooted in a rising social consciousness within society , something strengthened -- and amplified -- -- not only by economic growth , but by rapid diffusion of the internet . the government employs a host of new legal arrangements , shadow internet policing , and powerful hardwabased national information filtering systems .
this european polity lacks the second critical component of madison ’s governance : diversified political representation at the federal level . as a result , nationally elected representatives are responsible for making crucial eu-level choices . individual nation-states , regions , and even special-interest groups are constituted within the eu . but , while common european causes arise daily , they do not have europe-wide political representation . none of the single political party or politician in brussels can say that they represent europe ’s associated interests , because neither must compete for europe-wide public support .
and yet america ’s presidential campaign generally neglect to debate the advisers or the intellectual influences of science . though a president ’s advisers may be changing , one would think that the candidates will acknowledge them if only suggesting where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically , what they are selling them is their capacity to judge and manage expertise , rather than their own capacity as economists do . is there something more , indeed , that one might ask of the us president ? obama originally had a startling team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , the austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . this time , too , no mention was made by the name of any deep-seated economic thinker or some concrete economic model .
they can not simply wait out for america to move ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . what that distinct contribution might be is not hard to define . after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the u.s. is preventing eu members from establishing clear and distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences on the west bank and gaza strip , even as such a stance would help solidify the arab states ’ commitment to a coalition of anti-terrorism , as it does to provide a useful shove to american diplomacy . in short , they will need to compel their own efforts to sustain collective efforts . for another , they will need to make their own , distinct contributions .
as a result , medical professionals often know very little about the symptoms and biology of these illnesses . one reason for this is that the small number of patient groups makes studying illnesses and testing drugs harder to develop . little is known about what causes mutations that give rise to these congenital disorders , and the treatments exist for only a few . the topic was an obscure but large-scale collection ( over 70 ) of the diseases caused by a particular kind of genetic error , one that takes place in the machinery of cells that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . earlier this year , i took part in a rare day program in california .
one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and business leaders . while corruption is more a symptom than ukraine ’s troubles , it needs to be uprooted from conditions that are likely to improve . in ukraine , too , universities are being compromised : degrees are routinely bought and sold . markets have become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians are selling themselves to the top bidder . over time , this “ corruption ” culture will permeate societies .
by contrast , settlements offer cheaper housing than are available in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s major economic problems . nor should someone expect a moratorium on settlements ’ expansion . “ red lines ” in israel , by contrast , offer cheaper housing than are available in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s major economic ills . a new government ’s fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sobering interpretation . in israel , obama will encounter a country that has indeed migrated , but not toward a missing center .
at that time , japan ’s entire budget deficit soared after the country ’s property bubble burst , triggering economic stagnation . despite japan ’s weakness in its fiscal position , japan ’s government-bond market ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for the time being . despite japan ’s weakness in its fiscal position , the japanese government ’s ten-year government bonds ( jgbs ) remain stable , at least for the moment . at that time , japan ’s large budget deficits soared after the country ’s real-estate bubble burst , triggering economic stagnation . if the government continues on this path , many expect the budget deficit to widen further .
yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , especially those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . in late august , the heads of state of the thirteen members of the south african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges ahead of them . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that enabled mugabe to cling to power ; torturing and mailing supporters of the opposition movements for democratic change ; the transformation of the fertile , prosperous country once viewed as africa ’s breadbasket into an area where half of the population barely survives on foreign-food handouts ; and , as exemplified by its daily attacks on the night , the suppression of critical voices . mugabe ’s regime , for its part , has committed outrage following outrage . among the 54 paragraphs of the final communiqué , two addressed zimbabwe .
a 2014 pew study found that , whereas just 25 % of respondents are satisfied with national-level policy direction , 60 % were satisfied with governance within their own communities . state and local governments have been leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as have state colleges and universities . and the american constitution allows individual states to function as what judge brandeis called “ democracy laboratories by experimenting with innovative policies , ” without placing the rest of the country at risk . in fact , there is a long and abundant history of successful experimentation . state and local governments have been leaders in setting up public primary and secondary education systems , as have state colleges and universities .
europe needs to aim for a sustainable , non-inflationary rise and to create competitive jobs . in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone as a whole . the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is the result of a sharp decline in commodity prices , and of painful but unavoidable cost adjustment and price increases in peripheral countries . only greece currently has a slightly negative inflation rate . the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is the result of a sharp decline in commodity prices and of painful but unavoidable cost adjustments and prices in peripheral countries .
the implication is that speculators can drive up prices and increase their inventories holdings , even as the total trading inventories remain little different . thus , record-high speculative prices probably caused bunker traders to loosen inventories , but those releases may have been picked up by speculators , who now seem to be active lessees themselves with commercial storage capacity . additionally , the oil market speculation may have spawned “ echo speculation , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” whereby the ultimate users purchase refined products in advance to guard against future price hikes . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , because it tends to occur against the backdrop of intense fundamentals . record-high speculative prices therefore probably have caused bunker traders to loosen inventories , but those releases may have been purchased by speculators , who are now active lessees themselves in the business of commercial storage capacity .
moreover , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . yet both states lack the domestic revenue needed to sustain their institutions . if they wish to survive well over the next century , they are likely to have a subsumed under the union , backed by a greater , more powerful , and more established nation-state . such a state , whether de-linking the de facto or widespread formal recognition , will have an ever-enduring impact on the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) , and of the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has overthrown some regimes , though not others .
indeed , new risk-management products are being developed for some of africa ’s poorest people , asia , and latin america . a good fortune and a bad fortune alternate randomly , making the world ’s poorest people especially vulnerable , when adversity – like the hurricane in a fisheries village – strikes . so risk management , by smoothing out bumps in income , may prove to be particularly important in alleviating the effects of poverty . what is needed is recognition that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people between year and year . we tend to think that new risk-management products , like the novel types of insurance or financial derivatives , will primarily interest the wealthy , or at least relatively wealthy individuals .
that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , although he sometimes proclaimed allegiance to the hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( russia 's citizens ) deprived – deprived – or set aside , it is a matter of opinion – of russia of all the collective life ; both the actual life of shared hardship and the imaginary semi-lifetime of communist solidarity . indeed , even the uniformity of russia nowadays is different . nowadays , everyone addresses life and hardship individually ( the new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life consistent . in novgorod , i saw lukoil ( one of russia 's large private oil firms ) stations . this disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and the proletariat .
a new system , in which irreversible bonds ” replaced quotas and desirability screenings , would diminish such competition , while mitigating downside risks for destination and source countries . greater international cooperation on this scale would maximize the economic benefits of immigration , as well as the us . a new system – in which irreversible bonds ” replaced quotas and desirability screenings – would diminish such competition , while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural contest between destination countries and the source countries for the most productive workers . but , despite the potential gains from collaborative action on controlling illegal immigration , most countries , including the u.s. and the united kingdom , are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally .
real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic region than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the us economy shrank by an estimated 23 % . every downturn eventually comes to an end . true ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic region than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy shrank by an estimated 23 % . the mark of sound policy is that it succeeds in making the downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been . the mark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was needed , with long-lasting consequences .
warsaw – twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of its compatriot , the cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as the pope . but , even during our euphoria , we did not anticipate how much a new pope would make a difference not only to poland , but to the world . here , a prominent writer said “ poland ’s second christchurch . ” his first return visit to his homeland soon , afterwards , revealed to all the world of the new pope ’s powers . some have been frightened , others have been berated , in july .
yau and leung were barred from assuming their seats in the legislative council . though hong kong ’s courts surely might have handled the matter on their own basis – under the “ one country , ” two systems ” framework – hong kong has been assured of an independent court system , with the exception of the right to elect its own legislature – an enraged china has intervened . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee has taken a step toward making clear ” article 104 of the fundamental law , declaring that all oaths taken by “ office-holders ” need to be solemn , accurate , full , and sincere . restraint is not , after all , a leninist virtue . in fact , restraint is not , after all , a leninist virtue .
reebok , a multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as “ built on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . the international labor organization reports that unions are in retreat from the majority of the world ’s nations . reebok , a multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code , as it is “ built on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . but human rights sensitivity has done nothing to staunch the trade unionism ’s worldwide decline . reebok , a multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as “ built on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights .
the securities and exchange commission calls for firms using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten at their products to investigate these raw material ’ origin , as well as to mitigate risk in their supply chains in line with oecd guidelines if they are found to originate in particular conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the united nations has already taken the next logical step , and it will have to do so . the securities and exchange commission requires firms using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten at their products to investigate these raw material ’ origin , as well as to mitigate risk in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance if they are found to originate in particular conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the securities and exchange commission requires firms using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten at their products to investigate these raw materials ’ origin , and to mitigate risk in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance if they are found to originate in specific conflict-affected or high-risk areas . that is how it should be .
they will conclude that they can have it both ways , maintain the advantages of economic integration , without losing their ability to infringe on their citizens ’ right or using eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships , and to consolidate their hold over the state . the truth , though , is that cee countries have little to lose in the way of sovereignty . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán likes saying that they are defending national sovereignty from the bureaucrats in brussels . the bulk of their productive and financial assets are held by foreign firms , just when most of the rules that govern their economies have been determined by the eu . cameron ’s ’s ’s ’s initiative plays right to their arms , allow orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward an ever-closer union and a stronger federal authority and legitimacy .
one concern among critics is that shifting to a green economy will essentially monetize nature , expose the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to profit-seeking behaviors by central bankers and traders whose deficiencies have helped to trigger the financial and economic tumult of the last four years . this is why connecting the governance and institution at rio +20 is just as important as the shift toward a green economy : markets are the human constructs that require rules and institutions to guide not just their course , but also their borders . indeed , deep and pervasive market failures – in the form of carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental risks and eco-scarcities , undermining human well-being and social equity . as a recently released report “ toward the green economy ” : pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication show , the market economy , as currently constituted , has resulted in an misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . systemic food crises , fuel , and finance , which have come to the head in 2008 and are ongoing in many countries , have their roots in an economic paradigm that has failed to account for nature and its array of life-supporting services .
an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke up intemperately was charged with using the language of holocaust denial . it all sounded like a kind of set of job apps – a war for us president barack obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ear . coincidentally , a deadly strike in gaza occurred at the same time that a clutch of an american majority of the would-be middle eastern peacemakers published books on how the task should be tackled properly . third , like norway , israel charged with anti-semitism , those who dared to criticize hamas ’s disproportionate response to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective sanction by the palestinians . by that standard , is my ill-informed critic of hamas ’s bomb attacks making me islamophobes ?
but , instead of pushing for reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa ’s government has continued to play to ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese have been emboldened during the closing , bloody push that culminated sri lanka through a quarter-century of the civil war with the tamil tigers of 2009 . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by sri lanka ’s coalition of democrats and the tamil political party in last january – an outcome that he then sought to annul – was supposed to bring an end to both his own career and race-baiting politics . the former president , however , is now mounting an angry comeback bid , and may well win a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 . a similar political imperative lies at the heart of the sinhalese chauvinism that has translated into a precipitous return to public life in sri lanka .
schools worldwide , from north america to northern nigeria , now need security plans to ensure their students ’ safety and to provide their confidence to parents and their communities . these are not isolated examples of babies caught in the crossfire ; this is what will happen when classrooms become the proper targets of terrorists who see education as an existential threat . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated into the proposition that a bogus ” or “ westernized ” education is “ forbidden . ” in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of attacks by armed groups is underway , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria the worst affected . such attacks reveal stark clarity that provides an education is not just about blackboards , books , or curricula .
more scholarship opportunities for refugees , as well as more financing for schools within and outside of refugee settlements , would also be welcomed . meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and startups – are stepping up innovative approaches to hiring refugees . global organizations are tapping the tech-savvy refugees networks , and hiring them for online work . some , like tent ones , are encouraging firms to hire refugees and integrate them into the supply chains where they live . modest seed finance can go a long way toward helping the refugee-owned firms to get off the ground .
the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their current knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems around the world . the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , urges farmers to share their current knowledge and seeds with one another , as well as to protect local ecosystems worldwide . this is why it is increasingly being dismissed out of hand in favor of the agro-ecological model , based on the principles of “ food sovereignty . ” next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will gather in portm el sheikh , egypt , for the fourteenth session of the un conference on the convention on biological diversity ( the un biodiversity conference ) . while there will be consideration of whether to press the brakes on gene drives , ensuring that african farmers and indigenous peoples are being consulted fully before these technologies materialize in their communities .
buying time to secure their own political future , venezuelan officials have been careful to stage-managed chávez ’s illness and an eventual death penalty , even suggesting near the end , while going through complex , agonizing cancer treatments that he is still getting on and exercising . it is not exactly clear how the long venezuelan ’s hugo chávez actually fell dead before his passing was officially announced . the mise-en-scene ’s emotional manipulation surrounding chávez ’s death appears certain to translate into electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro . but will that suffice to create a chávista of lineage ? the information vacuum reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding stalin ’s and mao deaths , and the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death a secret for weeks until the succession is settled .
for them , a key constraint will remain that existing technologies enable insufficient room for factor substitution : using less-skilled labor , rather than skilled professionals or physical capital . at the same time , governments in developed countries have a role to play in influencing the nature of technological innovations . at the same time , governments in developed countries have a role to play in influencing the very character of technological innovation . demanding the quality norms needed for the delivery of global value chains can not be met easily by replacing machines with manual labor . all too often , subsidizing labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies rather than pushing innovations in socially convenient directions , to augment rather than substitute for less-skilled workers .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , american president-elect donald trump takes office with nearly three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with a republican senate majority , whose members won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . this is unprecedented or “ unpresidented , ” ” ” as one of his seminal tweets put it ( prior to his dismissal ) – – – in the history of such ratings . indeed , the us government of the world ’s oldest democracy is not democratic . only the republican majority in the us house of representatives , headed by speaker paul ryan , now has an entitlement to represent a numerical majority among the 55 % of americans who voted on the ballot day in 2016 . trump will also launch his presidency , with an approval rating lower than 50 % .
on the other hand , the chinese – and , to a lesser extent , russia – have been more receptive to such turkish demands as a component of the latter ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict . the s-400 dispute is just the latest example of how military procurement matters has created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s recent view , its western partners have not done enough , via technology transfer and joint-manufacturing schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industries . and domestic defense-industry interests are only part of the story . in contrast , the chinese , too , have been far more receptive to such turkish demands as a component of the latter ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict .
this is not to say that our responses to the dangers stemming from past legacies must be rooted in the past . just as we embark on the still-new millennium , although it seems ironically obvious that tomorrow ’s potential disorder may be due , in no small part , to yesterday ’s colonial rule . more needs be done than at any time in the history of innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance . underdevelopment in many southern african countries , faring badly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world , creates the conditions for desperately poor poverty , ecological breakdown , and rootless – the unemployed populations beyond their control of atrophying state systems . nor will we create a better world during the 21 st century by forgetting what happened in the 19 years and much of the last 20 years .
· a underlying legal framework to encourage these and other cooperative projects . in the bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have been offering four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · bi-national and multi-nation joint manned centers , where russian personnel can see the no-threat nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ; · expanded us-russian theater-level bmd exercises that are building on earlier collaborative efforts to disrupt russia ’s august 2008 war with georgian territories ; and that rehearse how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly defend against missile threats ; and · the underlying legal framework to encourage these and other cooperative projects . · bi-national and multi-national joint jointly manned centers , where russian personnel may see the unthreatening nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ;
though the us tax package that trump signed into law last december front-loaded tax cuts and is now helping the economy grow , us government revenues have yet to respond much to that growth . under these conditions , trump has had the largest and boldest policy proposals to run into budget constraints . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) and curtail growth in medicaid spending have been misguided . under these conditions , trump has had some of the greatest – and hyper-– policy proposals that will likely run into budget constraints . and the temporary increases in us defense spending will revert to insufficient levels following this fiscal year .
the eu has always backed the two-state solution , despite its daunting demographic reality , not to mention the need to preserve the identity of the jewish state . granting observer-state status to palestine would take off the table the prospect of an eu-wide solution that has lately gathered momentum among practitioners . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s ’s ’s ’s bid probably wo n’t prevent the eu from delivering a split on its ballot , the reverberations that will not only echo throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but also impeding europe ’s efforts to reset its relations with the countries of the middle east and north africa . indeed , europe , for its part , has ’s divided attitude toward the israeli-palestinian conflict , exemplifies its poor track record of achieving an foreign-policy consensus . the eu has always endorsed a two-state solution , despite its daunting demographic reality , not to mention the need to preserve the identity of the jewish state .
furthermore , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights the information ’s absence when something is blocked – let humans know – but that they can lack access to it . on the other hand , each time someone in china googles something and receives an answer – a product of good and bad points – the details of someone the government does not like – must wonder , “ why ca n’t i get this type of information on everything ? ” a bit of transparency will inevitably lead to more . rather than calling for an end to censorship nowadays , google is working to make that happen by eroding government control over information . with google , people are beginning to expect answers to all .
first , there was widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . while no outcome has been formally agreed or made public , several themes emerged from the beijing meeting . r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them do so ; and that , if a state “ has been “ manifestly failed ” to protect its people , the broader international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely and decisive action , ” which may include the military action of the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain keen to argue that the entire r2p enterprise , in particular its sanctions on military action in exceptional circumstances , is only about the role of old age of neo-interventionist wine in the new bottle . taken together , they are offering grounds for confidence that they may recreate an international consensus , so long missing in syria about how to deal with the hardest mass-atrocity cases .
by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle globalization . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need to understand those better if the system is to survive . global integration has brought tremendous gains : an international division of labor that is so clearly demonstrated by the theory of comparative advantage ; a dynamic benefit like economies of scale , and rapid diffusion of innovations from one country to another ; it is less easily demonstrating by a static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic advantages like freedom of choice linked to an international movement of goods , capital , and people , as well as the liberty of the associated international movements of the international community . those benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by a deliberate , persistent effort to correct and contain the system ’s ’s ’s deficiencies . so the global economy should truly think about as the global capitalist system .
( nixon was an unindicted conspirator in watergate , whereas trump is one in the new york times , involving his participation in pre-election payoffs to silence two women , with whom he had sex liaisons shortly after his son , barron . ) mueller made it clear that a controversial us department of justice , intended to aid president richard nixon , bars the impeachment of a sitting president . that is neither the us constitution nor the law . trump has been portraying the report as entirely exonerating him ( with no collusion , no obstruction ” ” ) , despite the fact that the report made explicitly clear that this was not the case . making matters worse for trump , widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the us congress commit a impeachment process .
another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with the armenian backing ) recognizes nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan . russia ’s supposed “ peacekeeping forces ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgian ’s other secession-minded regions , have , indeed , protected their rebel-held governments . russia , too , has been enforcing a total georgian trade embargo in hopes of weakening the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili may be tempted to respond militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . a renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only bring the risk of an open trade war with russia , but strain its relations with armenia , owing to close to 50,000 armenians in abkhazia supporting breakaway governments .
before germany ’s new coalition government was formed , the franco-german working group was established to weigh down macron ’s proposals . on this front , macron has already put forward ambitious proposals : a stand-alone eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for italy , and a eurozone parliament ( comprising members of the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister responsible . now that merkel ’s new administration is at hand , she will figure out how far germany is willing to leave in supporting greater european cohesion . in the short run , she seems unlikely to endorse macron ’s proposals in his current form . europeans must make progress toward the first opportunity if it is to seize a second , and that means strengthening the eu .
moreover , the recent establishment of two of the world ’s other big mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank – established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , india , india , and south africa ) – will contribute even more to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . likewise , the financial crisis has prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish a new ndbs , with other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets reached about $ 5 trillion in 2015 . today , they are an important feature of most advanced and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably in china , germany , india , and south korea . and big ndbs can have a huge impact , particularly in the emerging economies .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , both iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan will essentially resolve one large issue – the rundown of britain ’s diplomatic service – by posing a much bigger problem : the loss of britain ’s superpower status .
more broadly , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever reason , weakens processes , institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy work . so , what should the u.s. and other governments support liberal democracy now ? the answer might have an impact on egypt 's political future , and on countries throughout the region . as many commentators have noted , from islamists ’ standpoint , morsi 's removal looks strikingly like the algerian army 's overthrow of 1992 ( with american support ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s ’s “ “ soft ” coup in 1997 , when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and an american government ’s reversal of its support for “ “ arab democracy ” after hamas won elections in gaza in 2006 . so what should the u.s. and other governments advocate for liberal democracy now ?
consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as west ’s ploys to sterilize and spying on muslims . yet the world continues to undervalue the capabilities and contributions of frontline health workers . this not only undermines their capacity to do their jobs efficiently ; it also puts them at substantial risk , with widespread drug misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those providing them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and spying on muslims . as a result , rates of malaria deaths fell by 75 % between 2000 and 2015 .
the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : bringing the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . those criteria were later abandoned when nato started inviting even the most backward and corrupt states to join . once the potential “ military threat ” implied by the soviet union vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . moreover , not only enlarged eu membership , but it also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) . initially , nato was declared to meet both democratic and military criteria .
if it does , it is the failure that raises two key questions . the fund routinely anticipates the problems coming out of customary suspects – economically volatile developing countries – but this time that the crisis moved up a couple of kilometers from its place . ironically , this was the imf ’s lead in focusing on its surveillance role in its surveillance role . perhaps that proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret evidence on its nose at its nose at it . so , looking at the causes of the imf ’s failure to do so can be ruled out a distraction by more pressing matters .
indeed , the same relationship between france and the un , which resulted in poland ’s aversion to intervention in iraq in 2003 , has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . it is this specific “ marriage ” of reason ” between france and the un , which is vital to understanding the french position in libya . it is this particular “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un , which is vital to understand the french position in libya . but , if nato is – or is – – for a better or , worse , in its place in libya , it is the un that gave the needed green light to french action . at the crossroads of this question stands nato , an organization perceived as an american ally and an international ( that is , not an american ) by an average american citizen .
but , if that hour were indeed the lunch of a lobbyist , then they ( as well as their aides ) would be forced to lie deliberately in hiding it . if an official meets with a lobbyist and is not too ashamed , it can simply be said to me . to be sure , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we are hoping to reset the norms . after all , voters may be able to make their own judgments . and , if an official meets mostly with lobbyists , to the detriment of other kinds of meetings , voters may well be making judgments on this , too .
and there is the risk that the us tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop an almost identical product and their extensive legal resources to defend it . in practice , therefore , potentially disruptive new technologies are as likely to be buried as nourished . large tech firms might argue that all of the capital they pour into new goods and services is driving innovation . one suspects , however , that , in many circumstances , intent on nip up potential competition in the bud . it is notable that large tech firms continue to account for most of their revenue from their core firms , such as apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s office , and google searches engines .
it is , by contrast , far more difficult to identify the problem at a time when a person makes hundreds of trades on a daily basis . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibilities for establishing such an connection have emanated from telephone surveillance . historically , both the state and the federal attorney general ’s generals prefer to prosecute “ occasional ” salesmen , who stick out like sore thumb . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such an connection has come via telephone surveillance . in other words , precisely because occasional business rarely trades are far easier to prove a nexus for causality among their trades and an illegal tipping point .
yet barely one-third of all young africans are aware of how to prevent hiv from happening , another reason for pressing , comprehensive sexuality education . yet barely one-third of all young africans are aware of how to prevent hiv – another reason for pressing , comprehensive sexuality education . indeed , sexual violence is being used as a war tactic . another african epidemic is violence , all too often perpetrated by impunity . about 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children live in africa ; and , despite notable recent cuts in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still receive more than twice what is likely to be similarly aged boys to deliver the virus .
one man 's actions and decisions , no matter how powerful , can determine the destiny of nations . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change the course of history . that is certainly true in russia , and may soon turn out to be true in turkey just as well . the actions and decisions made by a single man or a woman , regardless of how powerful , can not determine the destiny of nations . that may be true for much , or for most , now .
as i show in a new peer-review paper , even if successful , an agreement reached in paris would halve temperatures by only about 0.05 degrees centigrade in 2100 . that may seem surprising : we constantly hear how each country made important cuts in its co2 emissions – what is called the “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ nationally determined ” contributions ” – ” or indcs . figueres suggested that the paris agreement would slash nearly 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 degrees celsius to 2.7 ° c. while her wording was crafted to avoid actually saying just that , it was , predictably , what most people were told . rising sea levels would reduce just about 1.3 centimeters . according to the un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , “ “ “ the indcs ” “ have the capability to limit the prediction that temperature rise to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 will not be sufficient but much lower than the estimated four , five , or more degrees of warming projected by many earlier . ”
an alternative perspective , of course , holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call and spur europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the current system imposes too many constraints and contains too few effective adjustment mechanisms . meanwhile , the eu will most likely not pursue substantial policy or institutional reform in the near term , owing to the fear that it can adversely influence the outcome of the consequential elections this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for gaining its own house in order , while upholding the eu ’s fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . anti-euro political forces are clearly making electoral inroads and will continue to seize up as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high .
and , on september 9 , while local government elections occurred , tens of thousands of russians joined the protests , organized by the anti-corruption attorney general and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the ban on “ political agitation ” on the ballot days of recent events . russians realized that they did not have to win out at all costs ; they may have been very large without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so side . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % of the us population said they were ready to protest a further protest . and , on september 3 , while local government elections occurred , tens of thousands of russians rallied to the protests , organized by the anti-corruption attorney general and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying a ban on “ political agitation ” on the ballot days of recent events . then there was the announcement of pension reform , spurring a string of protests that drove putin ’s pledge to soften the measure while appealing to russians ’ understanding .
by the time europe and china crossed pathways in the 1839-42 opium wars , technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and so drove china into a series of unilateral , degrading concessions . yet change did not have come smooth , either . china ’s imperial state and society were destabilized by european incursions . the imperial dynasty imploded in 1911 , under external pressures and internal demands for change . china squandered its economic and technological potential by itself , not owing to outside power .
these cities ’ apparent success , as both the government and the economic establishment have demonstrated , attests to the fact that urban land derives from the presence of a well-planned city there . but they are generally ingenious at developing glamorous new areas , from little towns in just a hour commute from major cities . true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare occurrence . where land today is cheap , it will have great value in the future if only someone takes the dramatic step in the planning process and creates an entire city there . moreover , private developers have trouble receiving a large-scale plot free of restrictions .
if it opens up an economy and adjusts to the exchange rate , there will be a path to growth and stability . if it opens up the economy , and adjusts to the exchange rate , there will be a path to growth and stability . so far , venezuela ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s governing elite and a large portion of its investment community have projected the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , just badmouthing . there is no imminent crisis of this order to happen , but chavez will have to choose venezuela ’s future . it may last for cuba , but it will generate increased friction with the economic realty and the increasing incentive for chavez to become authoritarian .
this means that the us treasury anticipates the average surpluses from 1999/2000 to stabilize at a rate of 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , allowing brown ’s strictures to be fulfilled . enormous trade surpluses over the next three years since 1999 far outweigh the official deficits forecast for the coming two years . the average “ current ” budget surplus since that cycle started amounts to 0.8 % of gdp . but , in fact , independent forecasters are more pessimistic about the future . growth is projected to return above 2005-06 trend , bringing the current cycle to the end .
the new revolution in economics may find room for strategies based on the influence of ideals and identities , rather than just taxation and subsidies . when successful , a new revolution may lead to strategies that make us more responsive to our superior angels . but , as georgia 's price has shown long ago , a darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least toward the people of whom we perceive as members of a group that we refer to as “ us . ” instead , the strategies have stemmed from the view that all of our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or treaties , an effort that , too , has been recognized by the nobel prizes . perhaps we understand that we are voting in this process , because it is precisely what citizens ought to do and excel at our job , because we are strive for respect and self-realization , rather than just uplift .
of course , nato can not safeguard democracy on its own , and it is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the anti-admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly , and to uphold the rule of law . moreover , joining nato means the subsuming of romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato command ( that is , american ) control , which is why any attempt to staging a coup , or else stirring up the trouble between the romanian people and our sizeable hungarian minority , can be avoided . nato fixes are hard limits to the autonomy of local political elites to do whatever it takes . such openly thuggish rulers as kuchma of ukraine or lukashenka of belarus are almost inconceivable in romania nowadays . nato fixes are hard limits to the autonomy of local political elites .
the trouble is why neither the compelling self-destructive rationale for autocratic rule , nor the mounting evidence for the deteriorating regime ’s performance in china , has convinced even some of the most knowledgeable observers that the end of the ccp ’s rule is now a distinct possibility . indeed , the consequences of leadership deflation are easy to view : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and a loss of government credibility . this is the underlying dynamic driver of corruption in china today . the apparent explanation lies in the power of conventional thinking . the long-ruling regimes – the thinking behind the soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto party , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically viewed as invulnerable even just before the collapse .
some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , who , falsely , gaveled at a desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960 ’s , should steer clear of the subject of world leaders ’ own manners . on a visit to the former soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use flush toilet adjoining his room , and instead use the chamber pot pot that it brought from china . perhaps he was suspicious of stalin , as the bbc reportedly did in the past year , picking up and analyzing his feces to glean information for the big saber helmsman ’s temperament . but there is a point to be made about recent behavior . when it comes to diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would call “ ” ” ” ” ”
that is why the so-called “ “ “ “ system ” liberals , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” or kremlin-backed loyalists wants to dominate the protest movement , and to use it as a lever in the ultimate struggle with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . system liberals believe that russia has , on the whole , built an acceptable market economy into an acceptable market economy . indeed , today ’s would-be heir needs legitimacy , not only from the powerful oligarchs but from the street as well . until recently , loyalists have argued that quest for change has precludes criticizing a government that should somehow be influenced by constructive proposals .
my office worked closely with the state in order to assure that in most cases , juries are used . that struggle does not end , but , after my interventions , moscow ’s authorities must heed the public ’s negative attitude toward trying to quash that publication . likewise , my office has defended the liberal weekly newspaper nostrums novoe bilya ( new times ) , pressured by the moscow city government on the pretext of the trade dispute over the loff . to be sure , russia is providing a far more headline-grabbling example of political and human-rights challenges , like the low grade war in chechnya or the yukos affair . my office pays a maximum level of attention to chechnya , even though this does not come easily from moscow .
new delhi – the international debate over china ’s rise has centered on its growing commercial muscle , growing maritime ambitions , and expanding its capacity to project military power . yet one critical issue typically escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical parallels . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent , by controlling the headwaters of multiple transnational rivers and manipulating its cross-border flow . new delhi – an international debate over china ’s rise – has focused on its growing commercial muscle , increasing its maritime ambitions , and expanding its capacity to project military power . china , the world bank ’s largest dam builder , with slightly more than half of the planet ’s roughly 50,000 large dams , is quickly accumulating leverage over its neighbors by running massive hydro-engineering projects on supranational rivers .
as stanford university anat admati and others have argued for a long time , banks are demanding , at a minimum , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . in america , holding elections on workdays rather than weekends or vacations , combined with restrictive registration regulations , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules , place ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage . as failures in financial regulation indicate , important as such economic reforms are , they need to be complemented by measures that redress the asymmetry of political approaches . the fact that financial institutions have escaped relatively unscathed from the great recession of 2008-2009 speaks volumes to their political power . they present continued risks for economic stability , without offering compensating benefits in terms of increased investment in productive activities .
for israel , an occupying power whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of thousands of times that amount to denying the basic rights of liberty and autonomy , the photo opportunities afforded by the meeting , and greeting palestinian leaders were replaced with the goal of achieving peace . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in regions of israel occupied in 1967 . the leaders of the world ’s superpowers , the united nations officials , elders , and tens of thousands of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and services to bring about the peace process . a grave look back on the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands at the white house lawn is revealing . the leaders of the world ’s superpowers , the united nations officials , elders , and tens of thousands of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and services to bring about peace .
in personal relations , denial tends to mask the imbalances – but only up to so long . in personal relations , denial tends to mask the imbalances – but only up to so long . in other words , the export miracle sparked not so much state-sponsored chinese firms , but through the offshore efficiencies that are crafted in the west . this resulted in the economic equivalent of the personal identity crisis : who is china – – or – – – china or the us ? in personal relations , denial tends to mask imbalances – but only for so long .
as lamy put it , almost 80 % of the curry is ready ; we need only added spices from major players , india , the european union , brazil , and china . that is , of course , but that does not make that view any less naïve . if doha fails , some say , life will go . these can be delivered in a politically palatable way , which also implies that the doha conclusion is within the us , not beyond our grasp . but why , then , bother to continue trying ?
the eu also suddenly awakened to the need for a joint external energy-security policy framework , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . yet an eu-belarus thaw needs a reciprocal , constant step . given that the 20 % of russia ’s offshore gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a durable , structured relationship with its government has become a top priority . in turn , lukashenko made the decision on the economic grounds that his country needs eu support , and that can no longer be relied solely on russia without paying a heavy political price . after all , none of the eu ’s strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing the drastic decline of its natural capital . but , in the developing world , immediate economic needs are often over-riding long-term imperatives , and protecting a fragile environment rarely prioritizes national attention . the planet ’s most at-risk ecosystems are located in the developing world , and therefore depend on some of the world ’s neediest communities to keep them in mind . conversely , the poor are only the first to suffer from their natural impact . the plant and animal species worldwide are vanishingly small at an unprecedented rate , on average , somewhere from 100 to 1,000 times its level of natural extinction .
at the same time , renewable-energy sources become less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy assets portfolio , including the nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , over 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . utility-scale solar energy , for example , has fallen by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continues to decline today . and south africa ’s renewables producer procurement program has viewed an overall decline in its bid for prices and an oversubscription rate . that is more than sufficient to meet the continent ’s future demand .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a staple of europe , be it the story of an illegal malian immigrant scaling up the paris edifice to rescue a toddler , or to create a populist government in italy that deport one half-million migrants . but so many countries , such as australia , canada , and singapore , are doing just a fine without agreement guaranteeing the freedom of movement from other countries , by issuing skills-matching visas . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote was fueled in part by bogus and distorted claims , like the fact that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe drove down wages . and yet , plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – are doing just a fine without agreement guaranteeing the freedom of movement from other countries by issuing skills-matching visas . since the brexit vote , however , the counter-brexit camp has engaged in similar distortions , with warnings that once left the european union , the eu would face a skill shortage .
that is not to suggest that the us should scrap or revise gdp ; but we need to recognize its limitations . looking ahead , the same cost-structural dynamics are promising to generate large increases in many areas of well-being . most health-care professionals will soon have digital assistants offering diagnoses ( especially for specific cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research . nor does it include increasing levels of goods and services that are delivered at negative , incremental costs , or non-substance to individual well-being or social progress more generally . the gdp problem is not that it produces the poor measure of material wellbeing ( setting aside the distributional issues ) ; it is incomplete .
in india , it is the poor who take time to line up in a hot sunshine , believing that their votes will make a difference , with more privileged voters recognizing that their views and the numbers will do very little to influence the outcome , have stayed home . but many lament that the country ’s poor performance as a political class in general offering less cause for celebration . major shifts in india ’s social composition have been made by politicians and bureaucrats , because independence is indeed a testament to the way democracy is working . in india , it is the poor who take time to line up in a hot sunshine , believing that their votes will make a difference , with the more privileged voters , knowing full well that their views and the numbers will do very little to influence the outcome , have been staying at home . studies of the indian election have consistently shown that the poorest vote in the numbers well above the national average , whereas the well-educated middle class is turning out in the numbers well below it .
even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must now be taken seriously . first and foremost , he has found in january ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy two striking spokespersons for his candidacy . first and foremost , he has found in january , and nicolas sarkozy , two striking spokespersons for his candidacy . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must now be taken seriously . should we watch the french presidential campaign with admiration or alarm ?
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating assault on a rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate a preferential trade deal with the united states that could challenge one of the us multilateral trading system : the party of most favored nation ” ” ” ” ( mfn ) obligations , which specifies that any concessions or privileges granted to a single country in a trade deal must extend to all wto member states . here , japan again acts “ voluntarily , ” ” ” under intense american pressure . gaining access to japan ’s entire agricultural market would , it seems , seem to be , render trump ’s “ us ” of national-security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas – a justification that enables him to circumvent wto rules with us tariffs . here , japan again acts “ “ voluntarily , ” ” under intense american pressure .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . whereas brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its rapidly growing labor force calls for an extremely high pace of job creation . emulating the dutch experience with job creation sets out the surest path to alleviating poverty in brazil . but lula may , and should , follow kok ’s example , using his trade union links , just as his rapport with the working class , achieve a social pact that aims to achieve sustained improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance and acknowledge its potential to become latin american economies ’ economic powerhouse . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch socio-economic model -- countries are far too different to do so .
consider emma gonzález , the previously unknown florida teenager , who had “ assembled ” two times as many twitter followers as a national rifle association almost overnight . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulations , as well as their opposition to the american gun lobby . yet assembly in the physical space fulfills the functions of a democracy that online activity , however enduring or passionate , simply can not . consider emma gonzález , the formerly unknown florida teenager , who had “ assembled ” two times as many twitter followers as a result of a national rifle association almost overnight . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulations , as well as their opposition to the american gun lobby .
the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . so , when it comes to explanations for the us dollar ’s ’s decline over the last year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . nowhere has been the abrogation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than they do on forecasting future trends .
to me , this view explains far better than the orthodox account for why , for all money-pumping assets by central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again , and the economy ’s recovery has since petered out . to me , this view explains far better than the orthodox account for why , for all money-pumping by central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again , and the economy ’s recovery has since petered out . to be sure , some worry about the collapse of the household saving rate , but few have become too concerned . in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . in one of his recent articles , milton friedman wrote , savings nowadays took the form of homes .
the enormously successful labour governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have simply done just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model , which later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . yet there seem to be some fundamental rules on the political survival that have been ignored in australia over the past few years , canceling them out may help both the alp and others to remember them . the first rule is to have philosophy – and stick to it . the hugely successful labour governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have done just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that was later associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . on the other hand , the current alp government struggled , until now , to create anything like compelling .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs the mobilization of the private sector , ngos , church groups , and companies to act as its sponsors . this will require not just ample financing , but also the human right and the capacity to match the migrants and their sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria was never supposed to become a crisis , either . it has long been in making , easy to foresee , and eminently manageable in both europe and the international community . this marks the fifth leg of a comprehensive plan .
moreover , the distributional effects of a green transition are , sadly , adverse consequences . a corollary here is that wealth drops as the fuel-inefficient home value , gluttonous cars , and the oil companies ’ ’ shares declines . it would be pretty much the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to get rid , and extra investment in order to make gdp less carbon-intensive . with recent estimates placing the desired additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller fraction of the output will be available for households to consume . the problem does not stem from using the prize tool .
since the early days of the brexit negotiations , the us and 27 eu member states and europe have strayed neither the bloc ’s core interests nor lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new , uk-eu partnership . owing to the withdrawal agreement reached this past october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit has backfired . our priority came first and foremost on securing european citizens ’ rights , including by finding a negotiated solution to the peoples of northern ireland and iran , for whom talks are about peace and stability , rather than just commerce and economies . and , besides , things could have been far worse , too .
such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a prominent advocate of american expansionism : “ just war is , in the long run , far better for a person ’s psyche than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , then-american president barack obama , immersed in the two hopeless wars of the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with an apology to “ just the wars . ” and nothing attenuated tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by overwhelming powers . the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the diplomatic charade for so many years now .
other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone even further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . yet , nowadays , with iran ’s influence growing and islamist terrorism continuing to proliferate , palestine is just the latest of saudi arabia ’s worries . other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone even further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . so fundamental are the changes to the kingdom ’s own strategic interests , which , despite being custodian of islam ’s foreign-policy holiest sites , it has said nothing when us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ perpetual capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone even further , engaging in security cooperation with israel .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only for taking advantage of europe ’s broader economic space , but also of confronting tough competition in global markets . no one can say for how profound change will go , or how fast they will shift europe into a fast lane . in sum , the old continent finds itself at a hot time . in france , large strategic plays are taking place in both banks and fashions ; italy sees its major players positioning itself on a european and global scale . no day passes , without major european headlines ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations perform gites .
but all european governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore markets ’ confidence – and to their own citizens . germany ’s binding fiscal rules have provided a positive example for other eurozone countries . the eu has been right to respond decisively to europe ’s stability by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing the european financial stabilization mechanism ( efsf ) . recent studies indicate that , once a sovereign country ’s debt burden reaches the threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will simply stunt rather than stimulate , economic growth . greece ’s ’s debt crisis was a glaring warning that european policymakers must not let the public-debt burden pile up indefinitely .
it is this type of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities or to the financial or intellectual elites who are supposedly conspire to undermine the true sons and daughters of the nation . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , like marxists and freemasculated , like “ cosmopolitans ” or , internationalists , people whose loyalties were suspect . to prewar fascists , the us was often viewed as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . yet stalin did not invent this notion , either . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , just as marxists and freemasons were , as did “ cosmopolitans ” or , internationalists , whose loyalties were suspect .
salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend based on a core belief that the armed tactic of all kinds is the most potent – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change . it should be beyond the us constitution , and not a article for the referendum . the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind the attacks on an american consulate ? “ they should not come near the shariah . ”
the number of israelis living in just jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel . more recently , he declared that his ultimate goal is for the palestinians to have a palestinian state minus ” that is limited in size and sovereignty . in any event , israel now appears to have abdicated the charade . the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel . their hope surely dwindled further when they saw bulldozers arriving in order to prepare their ground for new settlements – not an uncommon occurrence .
europe ’s ’s design flaw was , in part , a promise of ceaseless prosperity . the pro-europe foundation was , in part , the promise of ever rising prosperity . structural shifts to economies that experienced a sharp fall in interest rates when it joined the germany-dominated european bloc now need to be made more quickly , in times of crisis , and with no luxury in the form of devaluation . at present , the promise is severely at hand . the pain that this policy is generating has been laid bare in protests across the continent and with a bitter impact on many of the struggling families , the young , and the elderly .
to be sure , german corporatism did not permit such a solution : unions wanted their wage protection . the only way to secure them was for the government to pay a lot in the context of unemployment compensation in the high wage of east germany . unification meant that everybody receiving not only the benefits of western germany ’s economic institutions – property rights and hard money – and all of the disastrously negative institutions : trade unions , excessive unemployment , and excessive job insecurity , pervasive regulation . german corporatism did not , of course , allow for such a solution : unions wanted their wage protection . unification meant that everybody gets not only the benefit of western germany ’s economic institutions , property rights , and hard money , but also all of the disastrously negative institutions : trade unions , overpaid unemployment , and excess job insecurity , pervasive regulation .
amman – more recently , israel , former vice premier shaul mofaz , has offered a unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in the provision of an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s border , and therefore would not only be politically naïve but irrational . mofaz ’s declaration is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted , not only in the middle east , but in the united states as well . that notion is of a hegemonic iran that attempts to dominate the region through an array of shiite proxies . mofaz is believed to stretch from beirut through damascus , gaza , and eventually from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen .
in the united states , president barack obama and the democrat party , control of the us house of representatives , and ( filibuster-proof ) the senate , had the power to do virtually whatever they wanted in 2009 and so doing it . the previous elections , following such sweeping shifts in policy direction , occurred in 1980 , when us president ronald reagan overhauled tax cuts , spending cuts and regulation , and encouraged the federal reserve as a course of disinflation . in the united states , president barack obama and the democrat party , control of the us house of representatives , and ( filibuster-proof ) the senate , had the power to do virtually whatever they wanted in 2009 and so that they did . obama and his congressional allies had enacted the $ 800 billion worth of “ stimulus ” loaded with programs geared toward core democratic constituencies such as environmentalists and public employees ; adopted sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined earlier this year by the us supreme court ) ; imposed huge new big-swaths regulations on broad swaths of the us economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain firms for special treatment ; engaged in special treatment ; and exceeded in only in the federal dc , and beyond the federal dc ) ; and centralized regulatory agencies within the federal dc ; and executive branch of regulatory agencies within the federal dc ; and centralized regulatory agencies within the federal dc ; and federal dc ; and executive branch of regulatory agencies ( filibuster-growing regulatory agencies ( filibuster-proof this year , 1992 ) ; and so long term ,
developing countries are complaining about the restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor utilities ) , and fear that the new demands that they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . what is called into question is the nature of these rules . developing countries are complaining about the restrictive rules that apply to their exports ( in garments , agricultural products , labor utilities ) and fears that the new demands that they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . all parties agree that stability in the international economy is predicated on a rules-based system of global rules . opponents of trade liberalization decry both the secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto and the influence of rule-making corporate interests .
not all of namibia ’s core resources are finite . but , having championed for freedom from south africa ’s apartheid freedom , geingob says , namibia needs to defend the freedoms it has championed . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy into a tipping point that services account for over 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way . besides , geingob recognizes how transparency is protecting it from demands for corporate favors and other interest groups . some – like fisheries – are renewable , and the government is working hard to maintain and strengthen them .
consider the following four sentences in his paper : · “ the two first two revolutions required about 100 years for the full effect of percolate through economics . ” the vulnerability of gordon ’s ’s ’s argument is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . consider the following four sentences in his paper : · both the first two revolutions required about 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economy . · “ the “ ir # 2 ” inventions were so significant … to take full 100 years to have their primary impact .
this may be the correct response if inflows and upward exchange-rate pressures are driven by fundamental factors ( the current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , large and persistent growth differential ) . but , in many cases , inflows are fueled by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance that may lead to an overvalued currency , crowding out nonexistent export industries or import-competing industries , loss of competitiveness , and , ultimately , large current-account deficits and , therefore , tighter external growth constraints . the first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . given all of this , the most critical policy question today is how to respond to inflows that will inevitably drive up their exchange rates and threaten export-led growth . that problem is exacerbated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is intervening aggressively to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
as long as the labor-force participation rate was 66 % , as it was at the beginning of 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it was in december 2013 , it would have been only about 11 % , rather than the 6.7 % target . furthermore , the fall in unemployment largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery . plunging debt service is essentially the outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policies . as long as the stock of us debt remains excessive , consumers will dismiss the interest-rate shortfall as anything but more than the fed ’s temporary subsidy .
the countries facing fiercest budget battles are , the eu , the united kingdom , and the u.s. , where fiscal deficits exceed 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the scale of the offensive . upon assuming office , he assigned budget projections to a new , independent budget accountability office ( obr ) to forfeit any chance at a sleight-of-hand date . but , while he does likes to raise his voice , he is behaving with prudence : today ’s german fiscal adjustment is , in reality , very gradual . he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit to 1.5 % of gdp this year , imposing a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 .
other large and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subjected to limits to their acquiring particular weapons and military facilities . likewise , the refusal of palestinian refugees to the right of return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and just plain so . are they to return to homes and farms that no longer exists ? indeed , demilitarization of sinai is among egypt ’s fundamental ingredients of its stability with israel . what sense would it force to return millions of palestinians to a state whose character and symbols are alien to them – a state in which the majority belongs to another ethnic group ?
renzi ’s proposed reforms , among other things , would modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the parliament ’s upper house ) . in austria , voters will elect between pro- and anti-eu candidate in a nationalist mold , le pen of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . le pen ’s victory could add a wind to le pen ’s sails . among other things , berlusconi has been changing italy ’s own political system in such a manner as a way to prevent the left from gaining full power once again , by blocking any kind of criminal charges that may have been leveled against him . the constitutional changes renzi ’s yes campaign are questioning voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s legacy , a legacy that serves as the prime example of damaging right-wing populism can do to the eu .
as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increasing readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treating all forms of subversive collective action , can be viewed as reflecting a growing sense of insecurity . still , it is important to remember that there is a positive aspect to the party ’s ’s self-confidence . consider the harsh handling of gadfly ’s critic , liu xiaobao , sentenced to 11 years in jail on trumpian charges of “ subversion ” subversion for launching an online petition drive championing civil liberties . conversely , some of china ’s most worrying moves may be chalked out of exaggerated feelings of insecurity . would a really self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish about its activism ?
but debates over competition and fair trade have again demonstrated an intellectual poverty and an inequity for trade negotiations . within advanced countries , there has long been concern over such behaviors -- so-called `` predation '' -- and the well-defined norms that have been developed . anti-dumping laws are aimed at ensuring fair trade by preventing the sale of goods below cost . but it makes the difference whether the good is produced at home or abroad . with globalization , expanding such principles to the international arena would be natural , making it meaningless whether any producer is domestic or foreign , when judging whether it is engaged in an unfair trading practice .
with domestic issues and reelection anxieties now dominating most political agendas , all of them will be far too simple for a commitment to the wane . arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous business , bringing few quick returns . yet there are many major contributions , which are less powerful states and leaders , like civil-society organizations , that can and should be achieved . start with treaty ratification , however , is going nowhere fast in the american senate , and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty into force ; initiating negotiations over the new deal to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime with effective action to detect violations , and to deter walk-barrel violations ; and to reach an agreement on some forms of international governance by the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle . if this is to be avoided , continued us leadership from the top , above all by obama and russian president dmitri medvedev , will prove indispensable .
i had only toured these cells : killing yourself was literally impossible . “ this was the inquiry , ” he replied . i had only toured these cells : killing yourself in them is literally impossible . their interiors are reminiscent of the inside of smooth plastics jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold ; there is no bedding that one can use to strangle oneself . this “ apparent suicide ” has apparently been suspicious .
moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , the unodc works with the international community to develop a more accurate and accurate picture of the problem . decisive policy action , with the help of more rigorous enforcement of the relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries . but gathering information is only one step toward closing loopholes in criminal laws and overcoming the gaps in prevention policies . in south africa , for example , the unodc has established three centers ( in mazowiecki , east cape , and northern cape ) that offer legal attorney and health care to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . this includes looking at the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing related risk factors , such as the prevalence of drug and alcohol use .
beyond the return history itself , there is evidence that both emerging and developing economies now account for roughly two-thirds of global gdp , compared to only a few 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely an outsized affair . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have been increasing in the wake of the recent american court judgements . such findings are hardly an invitation to embrace an indiscriminate risk taking . a key driver of higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon of those sovereign-bond bonds on offer . adding to the attractiveness of emerging-market sovereign-bond portfolios , its returns are not perfectly correlated with equity returns .
what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the latest housing-market train wreck . in countries ( sweden , for example , ) , where recourse loans enable borrowers to walk away from mortgages when their value exceeds that of their home , a housing bust can lead to massive bankruptcies and banking crises . but higher home prices rise , the further decline in they fall , and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage becomes – when the housing bubble deflates . either way , the outcome would be just the same : recession and stagflation . in countries where nonrecourse loans enable borrowers to walk away from mortgages when their value exceeds that of their home , a housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises .
in this view , america , rather than iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . tensions are especially acute in saudi arabia , which has been warning the us of its dangers in iraq ’s possible collapse , and are now finding itself in an unequal face-off with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran , confront sunni arab interests , and turn itself into a hands-on regional power . yet the arab world is divided over how to cope with a sudden rise in iranian power . other saudis believe that confrontation will only result in broader wars , and are urging dialogue and accommodation .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade talks , but the path to an end to the trade war remains far from clear . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america 's interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , both leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china as a conciliatory attitude toward weakness .
but risk takers have every incentive to try their happiness again , knowing full well that , at worst , they will be bailed out again . when asked to choose between the risk of being well known to posterity as a central banker who lets the system crash and the intangible future benefit of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take any genius to forecast the central banker ’s decision . so , knowing that next time will not be any different , the authorities are trying their best to prevent another round from coming due . democracy tends to institutionalize the moral hazard in sectors that are both economically or politically relevant , like finance or real estate , that enable them to privatize gains and socialize losses . so , knowing that the next time will not be any different , the authorities are trying their best to prevent another time .
but , in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what may happen increasingly are the costs of transportation , which means that geography can generate profound regional inequalities . among the large continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has a tiny coastal segment but large inland regions . while such disparities may , of course , have other causes , geography does not seem to account for much of the explanation . first , it explains why , earlier and rapidly after the country embarked on its market-oriented reforms and opened itself to the world . when the central object of human consumption was food , this was not the problem , because what mattered is land and water .
fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in 2009 , getting more money to the troubled asset relief program ( which prevailed in 2009 ) would have been hard or impossible . the notion that some versions of the soros plan ’s scheme would spur growth is speculative , at best . that leaves aside from the additional lesson , gained from experience , that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be extremely passive in boosting lending . as a result , careful calculations about the impact on home mortgages reduce aggregate demand ( of which we have performed , and that johnson and soros do n’t ) do n’t bear their claims : additional spending per dollar of forbearance probably has been smaller than the dime on the us dollar of governmental resources expended . the bulk of the benefit of reduced mortgage flows to consumers only over time .
in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , an independent central bank established an inflation target of about 2 % in order to give “ price-stability ” economies “ anchor . ” because many treaties are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easily reformed ” ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict harm on the economy . keynes ’s dictum became the ruling wisdom of us monetary policy ( one of its few in order to survive ) . rising prices are reducing the value of savings and incomes , while falling prices reduce earnings expectations , encourage hoarded housing , and increasing the real ( inflation-adjusted ) debt burden . governments , under the conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices , with modest bias toward inflation , in order to stimulate the “ animal spirits ” of traders and shoppers .
margaret thatcher was always an opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . under law , britain can avoid unwelcome developments within the eu because the union is founded on the treaty ; therefore , britain has an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the brics have already lost that power , because it demanded , and got , the right to opt out of participation in emu . today , the brics seem to be an insuperable impediment to attainment by the rest of an increasingly integrated eu . british hostility toward that objective became more ferocious , owing to john major ’s loss of his tory majority in parliament and fallen under the power of his own party .
princeton – democracy everywhere faces major challenges , and it is clear that the two countries are struggling to reach a democratic one . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with the populist outsiders threatening to overthrow the established party machinery . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of a revival of national sovereignty is fueling the leave campaign . brazil is being paralyzed by its constitutional crisis , and it will have to do so . brazil is being paralyzed by its constitutional crisis , and its parliamentary majority is on the rise .
given the uncertainty surrounding the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and full-fledged debt restructuring would be an overkill . but there is no superior alternative , either . persuading the bondholders to reach an agreement would be challenging , even more so , given the recent court rulings in the united states , which reinforce the hand of holdout investors . to avoid exciting markets would have to be voluntary . ukraine would have been an ideal candidate to re-profiling .
water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut back to a bare minimum – a decision affecting the millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures . the situation in yemen , for example , is similarly grim . racked up by sectarian violence and civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage its water resources . at hamas , the refugee camp on jordan ’s joint borders with syria and iraq , over 85,500 residents each receives barely five liters a day for cooking , drink , and washes . in times of shortages , this is likely to be refugees among the first to feel the effects .
and , reflecting japanese corporate aging , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it harder for the private sector to fund annual budget deficits . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed by taxpayer assets . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion worth of net monetary assets , an amount that will be surpassed in some 3-5 years by jgbs ’s value . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditures , because the pension and health-care costs are rising . first , jgbs ’s volume has skyrocketed relative to japanese household assets .
one key decision facing serbia , as well as its new institutions , is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague . after some procrastination and an early failed attempt , milosevic was sacked , with no bloodshed , if not without dangers . these are great steps forward , showing that , despite brainwashing and the complicity of many serbs in the milosevic regime ’s crimes , democracy and an open society have a chance of taking root in what remains of yugoslavia . much has happened recently in yugoslavia . a peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend can presage conflict and hard choices about independence , but the chances are strong that parties will settle these matters by speaking rather than fighting .
this is not to say that the ecb president should pick fights whenever possible . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed it is indispensible . like political pressure from central banks , including the ecb , it will increase , its president should not hesitate to criticize european politicians , and , if necessary , publicly name and shame them . by contrast , it should build support for the ecb ’s independence . the ecb ’s independence is its most precious asset , indeed , indispensible .
it took until last summer to recognize – and even then to a modest degree of magnitude – that such aid can be used to support an economic recovery . europe ’s last mistake was given some measure of indifference to fairness . it took until last summer to recognize – and even then to a modest degree of magnitude – that this aid can be used to spur an economic recovery . yet the eu is a political entity , which has made social justice one of its fundamental goals . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis are all too present throughout much of europe , as distressed economies attempt to stabilize and grow simultaneously . and the european central bank has consistently demonstrated that it will stand up to europe . in fact , reform and consolidation measures are taking place across the eu as a whole . notwithstanding the important decisions that have been made over the past few years , the reality is that we must do even more to address the challenges that europe faces . joint financial backstops have been put on hold .
in the future , both client-services and transaction-management systems will receive more consumer input , so that product design is interactively shaped . but the rise of interactive social networking has made financial innovations a more bottom-up approach . millions of bank customers using mobile phones can offer instant feedback , on which the goods and services that they like or dislike . yet , in earlier eras , the financial industry has proved that it can operate as the public good by providing trustworthy , efficient services . current strategy in the financial industry is fueling excessive competition , by raising market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customers for short-run gains .
this sentiment is enhanced as the global economy turns out to be a global casino . today , the upsurge in micro-nationalism is not only the result of a revolt against the empires : it also constitutes a revolt against globalization . there is widespread opposition to the notion that the chief function of the modern states is to put their peoples into the global marketplace , dominated by efficiencies and cheapness , heedless of the non-economic harm . thus , the unraveling of multinational states is a false pathway to change . the path forward lies in a democratic form of federalism that can maintain sufficient central authority for statehood while respecting local and regional cultures .
optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that the american people have never had it so well . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw many – especially many chinese – as passing the torch . still , one is right to wonder whether the american way out of life will survive in the twenty-first century , and if it does , whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and the political system collapse under the accumulation of weight of decades of myopic national governance and squandered opportunities . the pessimists have been saying this for a long time to come . if there is any continuity worth underscoring , it is the regular cohabitation of the boosterism with declinism : america ’s ’s glass always half-full and half-empty .
today , trust has been sucked out of britain through social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future . but , even as those uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a sort of zero-sum transfer of emotion that is impossible to ignore . in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily feel the difference between the two cities . paris , though undeniably more glorious , was at risk of becoming a new rome , a prisoner of his past glory , at best a place to visit , but nowhere should it be . london was bursting at a time of dynamism and pride in assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism .
they have become key market players , holding at around 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts . besides investing large amounts of money , they hold futures contracts for an extended period , potentially making them less likely to react to changing market fundamentals . in fact , index funds are a good example of such powerful investors . they have become key market players , holding at around 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts . such speculative investment can augment the trend further , pushing futures prices further out of the market equilibrium , especially if many investors follow suit , or those that invest sufficient financial resources to influence the market .
new york – president george w. bush is endangering the united states and global security while undermining american values . for opposing him , i have been demonized by the bush administration . but these are not normal times . president bush ran in 2000 on a platform of promising a “ humble ” foreign policy . if re-elected , bush ’s doctrine of preemptive action – and his invasion of iraq – is doomed , and the world will need to live with the consequences . i have never been heavily engaged in partisan politics .
indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the succession wars , which were followed by annihilating large sections of serbia ’s traditional education and training systems , which are supposed to boost long-term employment . the 1999 balkan wars and massive international support helped to rebuild local education , while developing innovative vocational training and training systems to spur long-term employment . since then , stability and hope began to return to a region affected by the devastation of war , as well as by widespread despair of social displacement . the balkan wars of 1999 and massive international aid helped to rebuild the local education system , while developing innovative vocational training and training systems to spur long-term employment . the results of many projects in these countries are heartening , with the concomitant focus on training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and young and unemployed .
thus , two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s people , who has shown that they understand the challenges they face , and another by their new president , who has assembled the best team at the disposal of an enormously difficult program . there can be no path out of the middle east ’s agony without participation , commitment , and resolution by all parties . there is the expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who is sleepwalking , not someone who is pretending to be asleep . ” in the middle east , so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like an essentially regionally vital state – is not the destabilizing shia movement , whose aspirations exceed what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest . whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on rouhani ’s importance is a matter of choice , rather than ignorance .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets in free-fall , it may seem sensible at first to ditch the battle of climate change and place environmental investment on hold . but that would be a devastating mistake of the near term , just as uber and proportions are . a huge slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a surge in renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” a million homes , and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid . back in the past , environmental concern was viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity – one that is , a point grasped by some , but by no means all – the economic architects have yet to do so . nairobi – with its unemployment rate soaring , bankruptcies , and stock markets in free-fall – may seem sensible at first to ditch the fight against climate change and put environmental investment on hold .
but we are not happy with the kind of unemployment that results from an abrupt fiscal crisis . for morale , we need a social compact that finds the purpose of all , a way of showing oneself to a segment of society by being a worker of some sort . that is why sudden austerity alone can not be a morale builder at all . and , for the sake of that we need a fiscal stimulus – ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally . perhaps all of us could be pleased with working fewer hours if the shortfall reflected gradual social progress .
at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be an understanding that just like today ’s us debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is required . so far , however , many crucial decisions have been made , such as how much overall debt relief will be delivered , and how much a “ haircut ” will be distributed among holders of various kinds of bonds . such decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects , and thus how much it can be paid to its creditors . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when the board brought a petition at the federal court of justice . that federal legislation , enacted in june 2016 , also established the oversight council with the fiscal decision-making authority of the american commonwealth .
as a result of historic suspicions among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights constitute the world ’s last remaining regional bloc , which still lacks an intergovernmental organization of asean ’s likes . the european union is even more instructive , because centuries of war culminating in the two twentieth-century world wars , inspired rather than deterred , european economic , political , and security integration . an economic bonus of such an effort for the entire region would come from opening up direct flight and maritime transit across the taiwan strait . with goodwill on all sides , the real advantages can materialize from building this informal grouping , because it is the gateway into the enormous markets of southeast asia and northeast asia . ceagpol might even become a building block for the northeastern asian version of asean , an “ association of northeast asian nations . ”
many years ago , the late economist george w. bush and i published an article proposing a way to reduce malfeasance among government staff members . in all nations , while many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely honest , but low pay attracts a lot less in the government service of some rotten apples , who are prepared to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . we have suggested that officials in vulnerable , as well as prominent posts , receive higher pay , rather than lower wages , than the comparable skill and responsibilities in the private sector . even in europe and the united states , lower-level officials typically earn far less than individuals with comparable skill - and private-sector skills . we have suggested , among others , that officials in vulnerable , and prominent posts receive higher pay , rather than comparable salaries , in the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security , dominating headlines . but the current rules-based international system , which has been decades in power , remains the most serious threat to syria ’s civil war . not only are the millions of lives jeopardy ; the global human-rights framework and humanitarian law are on trial just as much . on the third anniversary of the eruption of the protests in damascus and other syrian cities last month , people around the world , mobilizing in street vigils and online just as much as syria ’s ” campaign . now , those risks are being overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with confrontation within the un security council threatening to subordinate syria into the pecking order of international problems . london – which has been russia ’s invasion of ukraine and its annexation of crimea – has jeopardized global security and dominate headlines .
to be sure , there is an extra feature of the fact that many higher-education institutions have an endowment that can exploit to balance inequities . even so , the principle certainly is correct : universities need to be established free to do so . this is as true of its financial parameters , too . it will take some time to build up such endowments in europe and elsewhere . public and private contributions come together in a number of ways .
to estimate the magnitude of the problem , it pales in comparison to the global resources available to correct it . applying the classic economic valuations of everything from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy to wetlands devastation and heightened hurricane damage from global warming to climate change , economists have shown just how much each issue costs . yet , rather than picking facts and narratives to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should be trying to match across all areas of human existence to see whether the world really does better or worse off . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have been trying to do just that , developing a scorecard that has been spanning more than 150 years . across the ten areas – including health , education , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all have answered the same question today : what accounts for the relative costs of this problem each year from 1900 to all of 2013 – is all the way to 2013 , with predictions from 2050 .
trade is the transmission belt , through which supply adjusts to demand . but nowadays , a policy prescription is available to leaders that might help remove supply-side constraints : greater trade . this proposition may puzzle some , but the rationale is straightforward and irreversible . clearly , investment in food production needs to be increased in the medium and longer term . it enables the food to travel out of lands that are very small to lands .
but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform represents an even larger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated . it avoids the need for reform , and it would leave the country with mountains of debt ; consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and a yawning level of inequality – would last for decades to undo . instead , the swat has grown broader and deeper , and more . with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform threatening to engulf the american economy . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” ” ” ” in washington , dc .
the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders have seen such a world in mind . yet finance may fail in several ways ; lehman collapse is just one . it is normal for people to update their views about the world with what they have in recent memory ; if they last see them as a robust economy and a durable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . in a robust economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation will seem effective . if this cycle is even about the right thing , the regulatory fatigue from the battling to make finance safer will soon turn into the regulatory confidence that the recent war has now prevailed .
but , with the psychotic label already affixed at their files , anything they are presumed to be a symptom of their insanity . rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s own mental-health might never go away , regardless of what steps he takes to change his detractors ’ minds . modern psychiatrists would argue that they have taken to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , and now make diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously . at best , they would have been declared “ in remission . ” even as it stops ranting on twitter , or speaking in convoluted , incoherent sentences , at best , will be viewed as being “ in remission . ”
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . yet , among the many challenges that refugees must confront while waiting for resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental-health care top-down lists . beyond building bridges and producing gadgets , engineers can help to improve the quality and affordability of health care worldwide , by developing more rapid methods for diagnosing disease diseases and delivering medical services . those contributions are highly pertinent to refugees , but they are also highly relevant to them . boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world – has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises .
during the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected more barriers to reliance on knowledge , often triggering the gap between returns to innovation and private returns to widen . even among early industrializers , ip protection has come very late , and often unintentionally , to allow for faster industrialization and growth . today ’s widespread adoption of ip protections is also historically unprecedented . powerful advanced-economy lobbies , which have shaped the regime , have put the latter first , mirrored in their opposition to provisions recognizing the intellectual property rights linked to traditional knowledge or biodiversity . at the same time , the widespread adoption of today ’s rigid ip protections is historically unprecedented .
despite the advent of the european central bank , that asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb repeatedly attempted to breach the us dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange market interventions , the fed intervened only once . during that era , the us dollar appreciated strongly against the major currencies , and until 1985 became overvalued by practically every measure . so , long as those interests diverge , one should expect little exchange-rate coordination between the two central banks . this confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining the strong dollar . throughout this period , the dollar appreciated strongly against the major us currencies , and until 1985 became overvalued by practically every measure .
regardless of whether such meetings are a productive , unitary eu participation would be largely of a significant amount : it reaffirmed a common european attitude toward international relations and an international economic policy . in the coming g8 meetings ( the world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , the four eu members -- germany , france , italy , the netherlands -- will participate both individually and as eu members , whose president , too , attends the eu as a whole . a key argument in favor of such a change is that joint eu participation would increase european weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis the u.s. . but should the eu have only a single representative at its disposal ? in the upcoming g8 meetings ( the world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , the four members -- germany , france , italy , and the united kingdom -- will participate both individually and as eu members , whose president , too , attends the eu as a whole .
therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning ; it is a matter of course a generation ago . one can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another , even if the other is conceptually different , simply because the very existence of one creates a social climate receptive to another . on the logical slippery slope , a sliver to the bottom , embracing morally unacceptable risks , because there is no way to distinguish it from an acceptable practice . on the logical slippery slope , a sliver to the bottom , embracing a morally unacceptable conclusion , because there is no way to distinguish it from acceptable practices . indeed , there are two types of slippery slopes that exist .
the us economy is confronting its most severe economic crisis in many decades . the central bank attempts to hold down the exchange rate , but eventually it is forced to let the currency float . soon , the devaluation in a nearby country reveals just how vulnerable the economy is to the loss of international trust . the result is a currency collapse and a surge of bankruptcies . a central bank attempts to hold down the exchange rate , but eventually being forced to let the currency float .
similarly , rearguard efforts to demonstrate that those opposed the war in iraq were right , and that american and britons alike were wrong , combined with demands for proof that iraq possessed weapons of weapons of weapons of weapons of weapons of mass destruction are unconstructive and just causing mutual irritation . if the us sought to preserve the united nations security council and the positions of the current permanent members , then those actions tended to produce precisely the opposite effect . nevertheless , it is important to see why the u.s. is undertaking them and responding to the underlying problem of today 's international order . perhaps the world can not support the u.s. in its unilateral efforts to become global policeman , primarily because they may well bring about greater instability . if russia and other countries opposed america 's iraq policy at the un security council and the attitude of the existing permanent members , then those actions tended to produce the opposite effect .
sadly , this appears likely to come about only with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which seem more inclined to back up their support for syrian president bashar al-assad than to work for his removal . what is clear is that public policy can not succeed as long as it focuses on the consequences , rather than on the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees per day – the modern day volkererung – enter germany , owing in part to harsh conditions back home and , in part , because of germany ’s willingness to take them . the challenge for greece , employing and integrating such figures , will soon run up against the limits of its physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . the change that would have the greatest positive effect would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which is acceptable to the bulk of the syrian population and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe .
both sides seem eager to expand the reach of their partnerships , with the goal of reaching the summit of interoperability . more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , major military maneuver – the juniper cobra exercise – was conducted to test israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s own inclusion in the us ballistic missile defenses . it made significant contributions , they declared , to the development of the planned nato missile-defense system for europe . israel has also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean region , contribute to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patching the mediterranean . american sources have described the drill as “ “ the most comprehensive air-defense system ” that we have ever done anywhere in the world .
despite talk about a government negotiating an agreement with captors , that option , too , would be fraught with peril . girls are believed to have been divided into separate groups , so that any attempt to save a single group would imperil the rest . launching a military rescue operation would be extremely risky , if not impossible , . even if all girls eventually come home , nothing would ever be the same again for them or their families . it is hard to see how girls could return safely .
excessive penalties lead to the negative-sum game , in which a borrower can not recover , and its creditors are not benefiting from the larger repayment capacity that the recovery entails . the absence of a rule of law for debt restructuring delays fresh start , and may lead to chaos . the country played by the “ “ rules ” of financial markets , and has managed to finalize restructuring fast ; but the deal has been bad and does not help the economy recover . three years later , greece is in desperate need of a fresh restructuring . distressed borrowers need a fresh start , and they need a fresh start .
or perhaps they would have been sold on the black market in order to enrich the corrupt government of their own citizens . a politically flawed but rational strategy would have been for the rich countries to dedicate resources to the developing world primarily to surveillance . we would have expected to see many of the illnesses among both the staff and the patients in the hospitals where the victims are treated , and soon somebody ( perhaps even a non-sick carrier ) would have spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . counter-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive and in short supply . we would have expected to see many of the illnesses among both the staff and the patients in the hospitals where the victims are treated , and soon somebody ( perhaps not even a non-sick carrier ) would have spread it to ankara , istanbul , damascus , baghdad , and beyond .
but , even with such measures , the social gains can be artificially reinforcing the incentive to immigrate . as long as migrant workers gain welfare benefits , beyond wages , more will be lured into arriving than needed , and marginal migrants would generate eu welfare losses equal to those of the eu . the best response is to make western labor markets more flexible by opening up the systems of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . if workfare substitutes for welfare , then wages become more flexible , enabling eu labor markets to absorb migrant workers more effectively . given that , in addition to wages , migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from the eu to below-average income levels , such benefits are likely even as migrants work and pay taxes and social-security contributions .
palestinian authority running the west bank is terrified that a popular , nonviolent intifada might quickly turn violent . palestinian authority , run by the west bank , fears that a popular , nonviolent intifada might quickly turn violent . palestinian authority , run by the west bank , fears that a popular , nonviolent intifada might quickly turn violent . yet , with their government unable to do anything about the expansion of israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as the continuing conflict over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , the west bank are extraordinarily frustrated by the west bank . should it , israel may be using it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and its newfound institutions .
the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and subdued import demand in the west , makes reform all the more urgent than ever . wages continue to rise , declining competitiveness vis-à-vis low-income economies , but the underlying growth model is yet to be devoted to supporting competitiveness in high-skill industries , resulting in stagnation . to avoid such an outcome , li will have to adjust china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , more pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . a developing economy can be slow prematurely , at a time when externalities change . li must ensure that china , which still boasts substantial growth potential , is not sinking into a lethargy and falling into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ”
to succeed , moon will need to revisit the carefully the efficacy and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising actions , and avoid even the most obvious pitfalls . but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will be unable simply to swoop up and implement his agenda . indeed , with its democratic party retaining just 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , it will need to win support from the centrist parties , and even the more conservative opposition party . moreover , it will require broader public backing , too . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the key problem facing them is the long-run financial burden that such broad-based hiring could generate .
the causes of obesity are complicated , and the science of our understanding of human behaviors is embryonic ; but it is not hyperbole to call the issue an epidemic at hand . according to centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of america ’s children aged 6-11 are not only overweight , but obese . likewise , commercial tv programs targeting babies are replete with advertisements for processed foods of dubious value per person to human health . it is hard for non-profits to compete with productive values embodied in beyoncé ’s pepsi business , pepsi business , or taylor swift diet coke business . and , for every celebrity donates time to fight obesity , a dozen or more are accepted payments to “ hawk products ” – such as ultra-sugary beverages – are arguably the tobacco of our generation .
new powers like china and india are on the rise , rather than rising , a mixing assertiveness with the emphasis on their continued “ growth ” status quo . yet america today is on the back edge , both economically and militarily . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s states and peoples are becoming more interdependent than ever , owing to ideas , information , finance , migrants , and issues flow increasingly seamlessly across borders . thus , no one is up in charge , either . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , struggles to resolve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player .
according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow more rapidly over the next four years , with the uk then reversing the lead . no doubt , the recovery in the uk started more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also little doubt that the uk ’s recovery picked up after 2012 . according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow more rapidly over the next four years , with the uk then reversing the lead . and per capita gdp certainly must be preferable to aggregate gdp .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . in 1802 , america ’s third us president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is an issue that lies only between man and his or her god . ” offering assurances to a team of connecticut baptists who feared for their religious liberty , he pointed out that the first amendment to the establishment clause and the freedom of exercise clause erected “ “ “ “ “ “ the separation wall ” between the church & state . ” after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
but , by overcoming the gap and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , the us is reinforcing its support for a global order grounded in collective solutions to shared challenges . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and calls on the relationships that have been building and sustained over decades , as do its alliances with new partners . the us is making progress on both issues , but much work remains to be done . i have spoken personally with more than 50 foreign leaders , all of which agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt devastation in west africa and curtail ebola ’s spread . bringing together countries with competing interests and varying funds is hard work .
because of that 23 % penalty for repatriation , american companies generally choose not to repatriate their overseas subsidiaries ’ profits . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in iran , in financial securities , or in operating firms anywhere in the world except american states . consider the example of an american corporate subsidiary that earns earnings in iran . it then becomes free to reinvest after-tax earnings in iran , in financial securities , or in operating firms anywhere in the world – with the exception of america . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax earnings back to america ’s investment or to distribute its shareholders , the current american corporate tax rate will have to be paid at 35 % on its former pretax iranian earnings , with an extra 12 % credit already due .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument of mobilizing massive capital outlets for infrastructure investment , research , and development , as well as other vital fields . yet , at the same time , the shift to a carbon-neutral economy provides far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy on its own , europe can boost its own technological innovations and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect europe ’s labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost manufacturing in china and elsewhere . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument of mobilizing massive capital outlets for infrastructure investment , research and development , and other vital fields . the problem does not observe national frontiers and thus requires collective global action .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the british empire ’s crown jewel . just a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the british empire ’s crown jewel capitalism . just a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west , in terms of it , with its growing esteem , not only for the country , but also for its essence , a young country , and also of ancient civilization . and , like its economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed .
and , as the world becomes a less stable power , europeans will have little choice but to come together to defend their own interests . what the us will have in place is a power vacuum , marked by chaos . merkel knows that , if america sacrifices its place at the pinnacle of the international order on domestic political grounds , it will neither be replaced by a new leadership leader nor a new global order emerge . rather , she has been calling on a stronger europe . and , as the world becomes less stable , europeans will have little choice but to come together to defend their own interests .
the upshot is that , whenever the problem gets out of hand , “ are we generating too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . the bottom line is that , whenever the problem gets out of hand , “ are we generating too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . there is a more mundane reason that many , even within the eu , seem to think that a democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party simply loses control of the country . this is one reason why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy .
in south africa , the south africa development community ( ecowas ) , following its shaky start , is pushing ahead with joint projects , of which transportation infrastructure , blight for much intra-african commerce , is a central focus . east african countries are also putting pressure on integration projects ahead , and seem to be learning from the region ’s past failures , a result of hastily constructed , improper , and over-ambitious structures . indeed , a host of exciting practical moves in this direction is being underway , though not all in pursuit of an earlier regional course established by their founders . the western african states ’ economic community ( ecowas ) , for example , unexpectedly demonstrated both the will and the capacity to step up a struggle force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly , but , perhaps more important in the long term , ecohas laid the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the establishment of the single currency now an explicit objective .
the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping the interest rate high enough to push insolvent firms into insolvency than in promoting higher employment . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limit the fiscal deficits of 3 % of gdp – the ceiling that germany is already hitting . with private-sector demand stalling , labour ’s employment commission wants the government to serve as an employer of last resort . unless a future government is bold enough to break the pact with abandon , its only alternative will be to raise taxes that would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high . so , where is this demand-driven growth ?
new york – in his striking apology to iran ’s catholics ( much of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi made it clear why he thought that sinful priests are tempted to resort to sexual acts with their children . fast-paced social change came about , often affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic instruction and values . it stemmed from “ “ “ “ “ “ new ” and grave ” challenges to the beliefs stemming from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian societies . as we know it , child abuse by catholic clerics occurred not only in iran , but in many other countries , too , something that the pope preferred not to dwell on . and ireland is not the only space where social transformation and secularization trumped religious values .
such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel nowadays are popular on the ground . last august , israelis permitted an additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in zone c. yet the egyptian armed forces have never brought full numbers of additional soldiers , nor even bothered to transport tanks through the suez canal . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may wish to restore an estimated total of full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . historically , it deployed only 70-80 % of the 22,000 military soldiers that the treaty permits in zone a. and the army never established a regional command in sinai , preferring the possibility of units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in the country .
not surprisingly , given such a model , too many men want to participate just as well . thirty % of women in the middle east have university degrees , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” thirty % of women in many countries in the middle east have university degrees , ” ” ” ” but often do not have the jobs that are commensurate with their training of cultural causes . with powertofly ’s technological capacity to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at its highest level to an american company , despite the fact that local laws prohibit her from riding on a car . the founders do not exclude eventually expanding to the solutions that are needed .
it is far too early to predict the impact that françois hollande will have on his election as france ’s president . but , in italy , one person , mario monti , is already making a real difference . so , here are ten good reasons to believe in europe – ten rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts and worrying investors alike – that it is very premature to bury europe and the eu completely . it is far too early to predict the impact that françois hollande will have on his election as president of france . to be sure , nobody elected monti , and his positions are fragile and already disputed , but there is some positive near-consensus that has enabled him to launch long-overdue structural reforms .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
moreover , as a till von wachter of columbia university documented , prolonged periods of youth unemployment for their parents had a severe – and lasting – negative effect on their children . rising trade globalization also did not help in this regard , either . but america did not provide it – a point recently made by margaret thatcher , a prominent contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination . moreover , as the till von wachter of columbia university documented , prolonged periods of youth unemployment for their parents had a severe and enduring negative effect on their children . children whose families are unable to provide a decent start in life deserve assistance .
in most european countries , action to spur private-sector investment in local utilities , as well as transportation – both big industry – should be contemplated as well . but governments need to understand investment barriers : regulatory dysfunction ; poor enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure and substandard technology . and they must commit to rigorous cost-benefit analysis , to ensure that any intervention translates into private-sector investment that fosters productivity growth . it is here – at levels of execution that governments often perform poorly . too often , they are spending the money to support private-sector projects that are failing to provide a positive return to the broader economy .
animals consume more food than they produce , and the rest of the world has the capacity to produce them . and the clearing land for pasture releases carbon-dioxide emissions at a staggering pace . here is where the link between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty – as many do – demands more meat and dairy . this trend holds grave implications for the agriculture sector as we know it . in fact , cows emit huge volumes of heat-trapping methane , and we need to do so .
but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lifting people out of poverty and undermining sustainable development . they need to balance , for example , the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to advance gender equality , increase access to education , or address corruption . the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i currently seeks , has an even more expansionary mandate . those organizations ’ leaders must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , the central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have been working for many years with international organizations to direct these competing priorities , as i have oversaw the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict status .
in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties suffered at historic lows in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of the most prominent reasons is just as bleak as it is simple : european voters are increasingly opposed to immigration and do not trust the left to restrict it . berlin – europe , for its part , ’s established left faces the threat of extinction . on a continent long defined by democratic rivalry between center-right and center-left parties , the breakdown of the left may have far-reaching consequences , beyond special party interests .
finally , it would enhance america ’s relative vulnerability to a major strategic rival , with china becoming increasingly reliant on middle eastern energy supplies . this scenario would grant america ’s enormous advantages to the us . it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the diminished costs involved in us extraction of us shale gas . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . america is expected to become an energy self-sufficient in 2020 and become an oil exporter by 2030 .
in most western european countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide between incomes and other indicators between some affluent cities , which benefit from globalization – and those of the rest of the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact a tax cut based on where one lives . the gap between their objective analysis of reality and government policies has become a chasm . for example , in most western countries , economists have long known about the growing divide over incomes and other indicators among some affluent cities , which benefit from globalization – and from the rest of the country . likewise , traditional parties could learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than just through media filters and pollsters .
suppose that we are saving the lives of people who would have been living for the next 60 years , the 9,000 years of annual benefits are the equivalent of saving 150 lives a year from now . that ’s a substantial amount of lives , but we now need to ask how many more lives could be saved . how much of the lives of many people is receiving is worth asking ? suppose that we are saving the lives of people living for 60 more years ; the 9,000 years of annual benefits are the equivalent of having to be saved at least 150 lives a year later . whatever the gilets jaunes may advocate , this is an obvious : we could have saved more lives and reduced more economic hardship by helping people in extreme poverty in low - and middle-income countries than we can by spending it in france .
on september 20 , france announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 trillion ) worth of spending measures to halve its emissions . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals does not have to make larger budget deficits . indeed , some view germany ’s renewed commitment to reducing carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 to achieving the 2015 paris climate agreement ’s goals , as a battering ram against the schwarze null null null . spending on priorities like energy and the environment can be helpful . in america , such a package would appeal to the green new deal .
in the real world , opening up is no easy matter for revising tariff codes and eliminating foreign-investment barriers . while many institutional reform has been development-friendly , they may not target key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial , and technological capabilities , poverty alleviation – and , on occasion , shift attention away from it . it demands a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and political resources . in the real world , opening up is not the simple matter of revising the tariff codes and eliminating foreign-investment barriers . any economist who appears questioning the advantages of trade openness , so let me be unequivocal : i do n’t question the standard narrative of gains-from-trade theory , but extravagant , unwarranted claims have been made about the consequences of openness .
with the assessors frequently basing their conclusions on just the superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of those affected by ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects are often endorsed , despite their failure to adhere broadly to agreement on green development guidelines . that means that they must be run by well-regulated , impartial professionals . but , as examples cited above expose , sea levels are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , the seas must be rigorous , credible , and transparent . this is because , as it stands , technology specialists typically engage the high seas on the behest of project developers , a practice that , as activists have repeatedly pointed out , is grossly unethical projects .
on the other hand , nowadays many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always , and everywhere , the public good . perhaps such ease and efficiencies also fuel market instability , and they serve the interests of the intermediaries rather than their clients ? that is no longer the case , but it is also the case that we need to do so . nowadays , by contrast , many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always , and everywhere , a public good . but there are signs that such assumptions are now being challenged .
central authorities , however , did very little to curtail the intimidation of linyi ’s villagers . following strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fcpc voted to investigate . xinhua , xinhua announced that local officials were responsible for violence can be prosecuted . and xinhua , no time in claiming that abuses were confined to a handful of towns . central government institutions , however , did very little to curtail intimidation by linyi ’s villagers .
the 2008 global financial crisis laid bare fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , because the failure to hold adequate liquidity to account heavily in emerging asian economies . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger an abrupt reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 – straining asian banks and corporations . at the same time , they underscore asian economies ’ need for stronger financial-safety net nets . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger an abrupt reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 – straining asian banks and corporations . at the same time , they underscore asian economies ’ need for stronger financial-safety net nets .
for many russians , if not most , the authority figure embodies the powers that control everything that matters in their lives ; they encourage him , no matter how much policies that he implements , because there can be no alternative to doing otherwise . but now delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . the question today is not the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been determined . with the us presidential term now extended to six years , one can expect to see a encore lasting up to 12 years – longer than putin has ’s previous performance . this , in part , explains enduring popular devotion to rulers like joseph stalin .
the other great shortcoming was that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , turned out to be an unhinged and irresponsible president . originally , he traveled the world for months to celebrate his victory , ignoring chaos back home . but , whereas yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with overweening powers , the underlying cause of the orange administration ’s breakdown was that most of its ministers ( yushchenko appointees ) had defectors from the old regime . he then began vetoing virtually all cabinet decisions , triggering a political stalemate , triggering a political stalemate , and , toward the end of his presidency , tacitly joined with the old guard ( now back in power ) against the then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , in order to its credit , voted against the constitution ) . the old regime , ’s adherents , can more easily trick the newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process is exceedingly quick .
it embodied the conviction that the goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being need to stay in indian hands , rather than at the hands of indians seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but , rather than at the urging of the state , its father , and its mother to all indians . indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism . inefficiencies were camouflently masked by generous subsidies from national treasuries , with some combination of vested interests , socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , business unions , and monopolies remaining outside of political criticism . in view of this mindset , performance was not the relevant criterion for judging public-sector utility . indian-style of socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism .
but persuading the foundations and philanthropists to open up their hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , rather than ai-enabled software . potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is just as noble a cause as it is , say , cancer research . with the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly obvious , a growing number of media leaders – close to one-third – according to the reuters institute – believes that , in the future fundamentals and non-profits will play a central role in supporting the media . technology alone can not spur democracy , help to respond to important questions , and to facilitate effective leadership by advancing accountability . with the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly apparent , many of the media leaders , who are close to one-third , according to the reuters institute , believe that in the future fundamentals and non-profits , will play a central role in supporting media .
to forge such a coalition , m5s would need to adopt a responsible and clearly defined economic program , with the democrats forced to accept as the junior partner of an untested insurgent force . a pro-eu italy , governed by a m5s-democrat coalition , could unite with france and germany in order to reform the eu ; regain a clear foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis america , russia , and brazil ; and implement a green , innovation-based growth strategy . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s ill-fated former advisor , stephen bannon , has rushed to italy in encouraging m5s and the league to form a coalition calling the eu ’s “ ultimate dream , ” because doing so would breach the eu . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s brinkmanship could tip the balance . a pro-eu italy , governed by a m5s-democrat coalition , could unite with france and germany in order to reform the eu ; win a clear foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis america , brazil , and spain ; and implement a green-, innovation-based growth strategy .
indeed , whether capital punishment is meted out will depend on a host of variables , starting with courts and social biases . likewise , my statements have been motivated by trouble with the manner of capital punishment in india . but the decision to impose capital punishment on capital punishment remains a lot of subjective value . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted out depends on a host of variables , starting with the judiciary and social biases . the high court declared that capital punishment should be applied only in “ rarest ” cases .
and average hourly earnings for all workers on privately nonfarm payrolls have posted an annual growth rate of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . during the most recent tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , us households ’ interest earnings have risen by 29 % . as the fed slows raises interest rates slowly , those middle-class families are keeping their hard-won savings at the end of a bank are finally beginning to become realizing some return on their deposits . while this time around , the gains are likely to be smaller and slower to materialize , owing to the likely pace and magnitude of fed tightening , the interest rate on savings will shift household incomes in the right direction : up . the longer-term effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound savings .
beijing – much of the western media have characterized the recent 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as pure power grab , with chinese president xi jinping entrenching his post . but the accumulation of political capital in that case is a means to an end . xi knows that if china continues to thrive in a fast-changing world , it will need to manage the deftly far-reaching social and economic transformation , whereas , more important , improving state governance . and , to secure china ’s long-term survival as a one-party system , he needs to reform the state and party institutions ; indeed , political reform is necessary for xi , a precondition for economic reform . xi knows that , if china continues to thrive in the fast-changing world , it will have to manage the deftly social and economic transformation , whereas , more important , improvement in state governance
after all , the appalling conditions today are the product of staggering corruption and wastes over the past 40 years . yet , even with all the hardships of corruption and inefficiencies that no doubt plague its actual performance , our design tends to override the status quo . another issue is how much income should be channeled and how transfers can be effected in a country like large , complex , and financially backwards as nigeria does . at best , our design could fundamentally improve the quality of our public institutions , and therefore transform economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . the time to take action now is now at stake .
recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about the currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and inadequate financial disclosures that can no longer be ignored . financial markets are best understood as a historical process , and history never quite repeats itself exactly . the fragility of financial markets can trigger severe economic and social dislocations . this can not be responded in an abstract way , because any situation is different . the question poses on its own : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ?
indeed , sars experience in toronto , where cases have escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the seeming control of larger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and in the mainland china . in fact , these epidemics may have been dispelled entirely in the coming months . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist or re-introduce the virus into the human animal populations . in fact , these epidemics may have been dispelled entirely in the coming months . in fact , screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented significant epidemics elsewhere .
the bush administration 's recent decision to launch a parallel anti-corruption process through the g8 leaves the united states outside its premier international forum for tackling resource transparency while unnecessarily reinventing the wheel in the process . it is hard to see how democracy can take root if the country 's most important income source remains as veiled in secrecy as it has been under saddam . nor have the u.s. and britain been using their power in iraq to promote the transparency of its oil sector . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles available to achieve the global disclosure and accountability standards . let us hope that the new iraqi government is doing a better job .
this is not to say that israel should be consoled by the macabre arithmetic of carnage . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; the cruelest in terms of incomparably fewer gazan casualties make them unique . stories of israel focus almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . joyce karam , the washington post ’s chief of staff for the pan-arab paper , believes that this is precisely because “ muslims killing muslims or the arab killings ” seem more acceptable than israel killing the arabs . there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human rights abuses committed by israel than abuses by any other country combined .
the second issue concerns the unbalanced intellectual-property ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks , dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . spearheaded by concerns about aids , activists around the world have demanded that something is amiss . such provisions have restricted the countries of making generic imitation in drug , making many of the critically important medicines unaffordable in the developing world . yet , whether fueled by narrow ideology , or responding to demands for special interests , the bush administration continues to demand extreme forms of such liberalization in its bilateral trade deals . even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization delivered neither growth nor stability to many developing countries .
as matters stand , the shipping industry , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . we can expect to see data in the coming years indicating reduced health-care costs and improved education outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , governments will be collaborating on additional measures to decarbonize the environmental and climate impact on the global ocean trading system . such an effort is vital to reaching the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . as matters stand , the shipping industry , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter .
cambridge : the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . these are hard promises to stay , for the simple reason that the budget deficit equal to the government expenditure minus the tax revenue . indeed , they have first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan 's presidency : the “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve the beast ” scenario . cambridge – the united states - is famous for its ability to innovate . yet , each of its four tricks has been refined in just three decades .
first , governments bail out the largest banks , rather than allow them to collapse and hurt the economy . second , and , worse still , being too big to fail the big banks are helping the big banks grow ever larger , because their creditors and their trading partners favor working with banks that have an implicit government guarantee . the 2008 financial crisis has highlighted the two dangerous features of today ’s ’s financial system . or has post-crisis regulatory reform been doing its job ? so which is why : are banks still at risk ?
in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration offering further aid to the region , on a condition that the region ’s countries are demanding it . but reinventing nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily occur in small steps . while it may not be able to foresee the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proven its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . the alliance ’s core goal must be to make sure that it is steps forward . participants in chicago will have major differences over these issues .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an training engineer , is often depicted in the international press as “ center-right . ” moreover , “ “ center-right ” often implies a conservative , ” ” ” ” ” and macri ’s victory will not be “ conserving the status quo . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” ” ” ” in europe . in argentina , a left-right divide has blurred the policies of hydra-headed perónist justicialist parties that privatized state firms in the 1990s just to re-nationalize them later . but that label is not quite correct .
we have also learned that only 20-40 % of all breast cancers that cluster in families originated in brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – a genetic alterations that are present from birth in any body cell – can be passed on to offspring . most recently , enormous studies analyzing the effects of single-nucleotide variation in genomic dna , the so-called one-nucleotide of polymorphisms ( snp ) , on the breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 carriers , have identified the so-called modifier snp to reduce or enhance individual lifetime risk . most recently , enormous studies analyzing the effects of single-nucleotide variation in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on the breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 carriers , have identified the so-called modifier snp ( leukemias , leukemias , and the brain tumors ) . increased breast cancer risk is also known to be linked to several inherited syndromes , such as the li-fraumeni syndrome ( snp ) , a condition that is further linked to childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including the soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases of genomic breast cancer , however , genetic predispositions remains elusive .
in seeking to lead the next phase of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy . a second problem stems from china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s incomplete turn on the world stage . after prevailing in world war ii , america immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . xi ’s administration struggles to maintain domestic stability , because it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-focused economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . a second problem stems from china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s incomplete turn on the world stage . in seeking to lead the next stage of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
our commitment to tackling climate change rests on an understanding of the enormous risks of health and costs that arise from inaction . costa rica , for its part , is proud to be at the forefront of the world by placing that approach in practice . and , staying well below the 1.5 º c threshold , it will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue fever cases annually in latin america and the caribbean , far fewer people at risk of malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and volatile weather patterns . as a result , we are one in a handful of countries ready to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our most prominent asset .
but there is a major impediment to easing tensions : a proposed $ 6.5 trillion in sales by the united states to taiwan of its 30 apache of the attacks on us helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . the china-american defense cooperation talks have earlier stalled , owing to so much arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch dispatched to the obama administration of china ’s 30 apache of the us administration . the real hope now is that the talks along these lines can succeed . promote china ’s traditional civilization , with its strengthened spiritual ties .
speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff could have said that i support in washington , dc , for the last time being . and ignatieff has made some backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called “ “ ceu law , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” which the university said it intended to force italy from the eu . now is the time to secure some support in brussels . and ignatieff has made some backing , at least initially .
almost all acupuncture trials as a stroke treatment conducted within china have been positive . for example , most chinese doctors and patients have long viewed acupuncture as an effective treatment for a stroke , using it to improve the motor , speak out , and other functions that have been demolished . more recently , however , the systematic scientific study of acupuncture ’s effects in such a context has begun . for example , most chinese doctors and patients have long viewed acupuncture as an effective treatment for a stroke , using it to improve the motor , speak out , and other functions that have been destroyed . one survey has shown that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat the stroke effects , with 63 % of physicians surveyed believing that they are effective .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies , especially the rest of the eurozone , have continued to undershoot their own inflation targeting . but , more important , this might be the reason for measured productivity growth to remain persistently weak . clearly , the notion that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or the number of workers ) no longer exists . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies , especially the rest of the eurozone , have continued to undershoot their inflation targets . likewise , economists have had to question long-held assumptions about the downward nominal wage rigidity , the artifact of the 1960-70s , when organized labor became much stronger .
so it is vital to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential , which requires education opportunities for all . at the same time , a modern economy demands risk-taking . at the same time , a modern economy demands risk-taking . but the kind of trade-off between inequality and growth is not needed . a country ’s most precious resource is its own people , and it is up to the world ’s people .
the problem is compounded when consent comes just hours before major surgery , and months after the latest consultation with the surgeon . this haughty attitude echoes the jargon of “ consenting ” the patient ” – as though it was actually done to a patient , like the drawing of a blood or administering a injection : “ dr. smith , ” please mr. jones . instead , consent should be viewed as a patient of cherished possession , which he or may choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case . the problem is compounded when consent comes just hours before major surgery , and months after a surgeon ’s latest consultation . this may be led by patients ’ consent to practices that they can not understand or want .
as talent loom , however , the need to retain staff members could tip the balance back toward more professional investment . those with the sought-after talent to offer more bargaining power are better positioned to manage their careers , and command higher pay . at the same time , those without in-demand skills are struggling , and they feel disposable income . so far , this abundance of choice has discouraged firms from spending resources to train staff , which may soon decide to join a competitor . at the same time , as talent loom , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward more professional development .
such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reduces options for failure , and mitigating the effects of an incursion . in such a future scenario , a hollywood blockbuster may be about networks of computers fighting one another while humans stand by . it would portray the wider notion of the singularity , in terms of a hypothetical turning point at a time when an artificial surpassing man . fortunately , in that case , life remains a long way from imitation in art . similar to traditional military command-and-control protocols , they acquire power on the numbers , and can quickly respond to a wide range of attacks .
it is precisely this reason that we need to secure dfft and turn data into public goods for researchers worldwide . the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new era – the “ beautiful harmony ” – – – in june . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the members of the “ science science academies of sciences of the g20 countries . ” on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the members of the “ science20 ” science20 science20 , ” the first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 years . to reduce marine ecosystems ’ threats and confidentiality , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of an enhanced data storage and governance system ” that ensures open access to researchers globally , ” and the “ information sharing ” that has been generated through cutting-edge and multinational collaborations , expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics .
to be sure , today ’s cities are facing many challenges . the american-canadian author and urban activist jean jacobs famously noted that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . by investing in “ smart ” and resilient ” urban planning , the governments of bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand identities and predatory talent , investment , and business from all over the world . and urban services are often more visible to citizens than federal assistance ; consider , for example , the answer during a traffic crash or natural disaster . in fact , cities power growth through innovation , commerce , and exchange .
two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas l. two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas l. if this is where the previous ideological high representative of globalization now stands , china faces off against not only trump ’s america , but liberal america , too . the risk now is not only that economic rivalries , protectionism , and trade restrictions would jeopardize global prosperity ; it is also that these developments also raise the risk of a major political confrontation . technological sovereignty would take the site of trade and exchanges , and us corporations ’ nationality – even major multinational corporations – will become just as important as their business model is . yet it would be a mistake to conclude that the entire conflict has been brought on solely by trump and his neo-nationalistic agenda .
rather than accept the international system roughly as it is , with all its imperfections , they seem to think that they may be able to use their weight to change the rules – in their own favor . on the international scene , the large states are trying to shape their international rules , often building up their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape a larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call harnessing globalization . new political realities have been emphasized by the iraq war , china ’s quest for energy resources in the developing world , and by russia ’s assertiveness on foreign and domestic policy . small states ’ nervousness and fear began to increase in roughly 2000 . on the international scene , the big states are trying to shape their international rules , often building their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape a larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call harnessing globalization .
this , in turn , opens the way for more , and deeper , reform . rather than repealing the rule of law , overtime work has become easy and relatively inexpensive . the law restricting transportation strikes has taken effect on january 1 , and sarkozy is planning to bankrupt a 35-hour workweek , if indirectly . at the same time , he is preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , up from $ 60 . the law restricting transportation strikes has taken effect on january 1 , and sarkozy plans to disrupt a 35-hour workweek , if indirectly .
as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( like japan ) have steadfastly resisted raising capital requirements , despite the widespread agreement that does so represents an indispensable part of an effective re-regulation . with the exception of the united kingdom , a more extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has in the us ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing financial-market reform in the eurozone is actually more difficult . the banks are arguing that more effective regulation would stifle credit and slow the pace of economic recovery . their opposition has undermined the international effort to construct a more resilient system , and will most likely hamper efforts to place the european economy on a sounder footing . as a result , governments in germany and france ( like japan ) have steadfastly resisted rising capital requirements , despite the widespread agreement that does so is an indispensable component of effective re-regulation .
similarly , as the hudson institute of craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals to fight for the causes that are alienating them from mainstream america . ” every time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities fortify trump ’s core support base . this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus on unregulated markets , privatizations , free trade , and the immigration that comprised the former . to consolidate the support , thatcher would embark on a head-to-head , with the carefully picked enemy – from the british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri – into the bureaucrats in brussels . but , though ideas are different , tactics matter .
taiwan ’s young democracy now needs to be brutal : their voters are often just as unforgiving as their political opponents . the year two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election of march 20 – only the third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested that truism almost toward a breaking point . sympathy for this secured gave president his razor-thin margin of victory – with just 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chan , the kuomintang party ’s candidate and the people ’s first-party party ( kmt-pfp ) a coalition . whereas canvassing for votes in his hometown in southern taiwan on the election ’s eve , president chen and vice president ricardo lu lu have both been hurt by a assassin ’s bullet . taiwan ’s young democracy now needs to come to terms with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s re-election thrust upon it .
yet raising russia ’s standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his longtime legacy . in terms of per capita gdp , russia still fares little better than mexico ’s . even before intervening in ukraine , putin ’s failure to deliver on his grand promise , made in 2003 , to double down on russia ’s economy within a decade . in this regard , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as a twofer . the signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed because disruptive technologies and entrepreneurial strategies can not be decreed at the very top .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a good chance of becoming to his homeland of what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva have been on their own : the man of the left who moves toward fiscal irresponsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were reelected in the midst of an economic crisis . on the assumption of power , kim and lula were able to adjust , politically and psychologically , to the new realities confronting them , to launch much-needed reforms . both immediately confronted with the international monetary fund ’s international financial constraints , which opposition politicians can afford to ignore . cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance of becoming part of his country , what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva – were all to theirs : the party of the left , which moves toward fiscal accountability and freer markets .
this has not stopped modi from taking political risks , starting with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . but his decision to run for prime minister is far from his own riskiest move , because it tests his national appeal . annual state economic growth averaged just over 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed by lee kuan yew of lee kuan yew . though the supreme court has cleared him of all personal wrongdoings , the tragedy has persists , making it harder for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . yet history haunts modi ’s own campaign – namely , the deaths of more than 1,000 people in the anti-muslim riots of gujarat in 2002 .
on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s ’s current campaign cost of 1 % of gdp is a staggering 1 % of gdp . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit with the us . a chinese businessman told me that real gdp growth is less than half that of the us official figure . xi ’s ’s ’s ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome that resistance ; instead , it is simply an discouraging initiative . perhaps that can be countered by the private sector ’s dynamism ; but , even there , fear of losing control increases the party ’s role .
how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in a wider transformation of its neighborhood . meanwhile , turkey and the united states share a mutual interest in cooperating with each other in iraq , syria , and iran . meanwhile , turkey and the united states share a mutual interest in cooperating with each other in iraq , syria , and iran . but , because turkey builds closer relations with the us , and its rivalry with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also need to come to terms with an increasingly assertive russia that is eager to prove itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean – and sustain its foothold in syria . turkey ’s real strengths are its thriving economies , a secular democratic system , and capacity to mediate between its western allies and the region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream .
such remedies drove down the rates of new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , particularly in the us , where the number of people living with hiv , especially in 15-49 terms , continues to rise ) . in fact , contagion among newborn babies , once running at about 70,000 annually , has been cut by some 63 % , with the lives of tens of millions of hiv/aids sufferers prolonged . another important factor has been improved integration of treatment plans . the government has aligned its early-antiretroviral treatment programs for current sufferers , launched in 2008 with early-tracking programs for pregnant women . with nearly two million patients now on anti-retroviral therapy , annual food-related deaths have dropped by about 100,000 since 2005 .
but this can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia comes into existence , so that current and future generations of researchers can make new breakthroughs that benefit patients everywhere . astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down a new bone , by producing an element that inhibits the cells that break the bone and promotes those who produce both the bone and the cartilage . consider the polar bear , which is threatened with wild extinction of climate change . these mammals are spending up to seven months of hibernating year , during which time they are basically immobile . a human would lose one-third or more of the bone mass when the immobile is present for that period .
there is a powerful argument , too , for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has been under attack , thereby activating article 5 of the eu ’s north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense . yet this is not just europe ’s struggle or that of the united states . the entire alliance should commit itself to defeating terrorism . this is the focus of the global order in a stable , prosperous world . but they need stronger support , not only in afghanistan or weaponry and training , but from western special forces as well .
after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe nowadays is shaping up to the question of how much europe wants , an open , and optimistic one should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and the degree of social solidarity that is reasonable . these debates – and thus the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to adhere to the standard party line . now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly incorporate existential questions about the survival of the european union and the entire european project . these debates – and , therefore , the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to adhere to the standard party line . after all , despite their differences , practically every country in europe nowadays is shaping up to the question of how much europe wants , an open , and optimistic one should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and an approach to social solidarity .
• whereas neo-liberals are concerned with excessive rule , a weak us government impedes growth , because weak states are unable to provide law and order , and can not ensure secure , sound banking systems . the neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and host to different things that even the best-performing market economies are unable to meet . it was , after all , far too little regulation of capital and financial-market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and the us treasury , that led to the 1997 financial crisis . the question was not to be one of how to deregulate quickly , but rather about how to develop the proper regulatory framework . market failures are a matter of life , but so are government failures .
importers tend to prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak exchange rate . any and every and every monetary-policy measure redistribute the wealth they need . to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different effects on various groups in various times . importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer to be weak . any and every monetary-policy measure redistribute wealth .
in any case , the chinese wage narrative is far more complicated than it might seem . nominal wages may rise , while real wages are stagnant , owing to higher inflation . and even actual wage increases on the national level will not undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity continues to grow more rapidly . moreover , even if real wages rise in some coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” as a share of gdp could remain flat , on average , in the next five years . thus , the conclusion seems to be that wage growth will not jeopardize china ’s competitiveness over the next ten years or even 20 years .
to judge whether their prices are “ “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , we need to look into the us trade balance . because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the current exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . it is now clear that germany ’s net exports would remain high , even if the euro appreciated substantially from its current level . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has an extremely large trade surplus with the rest of the world . germany ’s per capita exports surpassed its imports by almost $ 200 trillion over the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp .
in the weeks leading up to the election , the public seemed to have grown weary of the prime minister , who was long in office enough to be corrupted by power arrogance and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . these structural elements were bolstered by the developments elsewhere in the region , reinforced by a sense among israeli voters that they are victimized by many enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its missiles ; the rise of isis amid the state failures of afghanistan in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . netanyahu ’s victory marked a clear personal comeback . he ran a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma as much as on scare tactics . against that backdrop , he is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate for housing involving territorial concessions .
throughout this process , kenya ’s top leaders should bear in mind that even the best plans may sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience demonstrated . but , with last year ’s presidential election due , the situation has begun to deteriorate . the following year , petroleum revenue management is dividing wealth between consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as has been recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . the following year , petroleum revenue management is dividing wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . as a result , investment should be gradual , potentially implying temporarily covering some oil wealth abroad .
since then , hedge funds have been growing in importance , with secrecy bank accounts thriving . but , when developing countries pointed their fingers at clandestine bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and american enthusiasm for greater transparency diminish . in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on the lack of transparency on financial markets . yet there are some large differences between now and right now . in fact , most developing countries have been accumulating massive foreign-currency reserves .
in any case , the hardships suffered by the eu ’s citizens could be lessened had draghi followed the last prescription , providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to compensate for reform and fiscal consolidation in others . looking at the ecb , policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who are facing the most to suffer . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence to retain influence in ukraine . by selectively tackling the most dangerous risks , draghi succeeded in minimize them . by selectively tackling the most dangerous risks , draghi succeeded in minimize them .
think of the appeal of movies like thelma and the louisiana , or of the working girl in which a leader of gutsy is a gutsy , exploited by secretary who , the trampled by a snooty female ivy league boss nonetheless manages to end a dream job , dream guy , and corner office . whereas reports surfacing that palin has told a bunch of african-american not to hire black men , working-class white women often grasp their own experiences with respect to racial hostility . so , when sarah palin is escorted into her media limelight , she has become the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , depleted factory workers and secretaries . they perceive an underclass that they believe receives the benefits of being denied to them , and a thriving economy in the developing world that siphons from well-paying blue-collar jobs . think of the appeal of movies like thelma and the louisiana , or of working girl , in which a prominent feature is a gutsy , exploited secretary who , the trampled by a snooty female ivy league boss nonetheless manages to put an end to dream jobs , dream guy , and corner office .
as i emphasize in my new book the codependency of china and american ties to them collectively inextricably concerned . it recognized the need for a shift from a model centered on exports – and investment-led production ( through production of services ) to one led by private consumption ( through services ) . that change gives china a far better chance of avoiding the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” ” ” ” ” which ensnared in most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that the recipe for a early-stage take-up of take-off is adequate to reach developed-country status . in fact , the american and chinese cases do not exist in any vacuum . china already has delivered on this front , by abandoning the growth model that had been successful in the country ’s economic development for more than 30 years .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) to try to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . the crisis has represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving breakdowns at almost all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions . while there are some merit to these solutions , they are insufficient to address effectively the complex , far-reaching flaws that led to the global financial crisis of 2007-2009 . whether producing effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of factors underpinning – and undermining – the global financial stability worldwide . at last year ’s summit , dialogues about the central banking sector ’s future that pittsburgh ’s inflation-targeting approach produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; the world monetary authority should be designed to encourage multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary objective .
the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by producing too-big-to-fail entities , while hampering smaller players ’ ability to compete . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has created a winner-take-all sort , in which the most technologically sophisticated actors gain market share through economies of scale . piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , the era of globalization has created a winner-take-all environment , in which the most technologically sophisticated actors gain market share through economies of scale . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates encouraging financial repression on household saving .
this phenomenon became all too apparent during the asian crisis , and was followed by the russian sovereign-debt default of august 1998 . many countries lack foreign-currency reserves enough to satisfy sudden and large-scale capital outflows without destabilizing their home economies . at times , such outflows may occur through no fault of a country concerned , but owing to financial market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . at times , such outflows may occur through no fault of the country in question , but owing to financial market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude of which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceed that of individual countries — and the international community — to counter such flows .
blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because it wants britain to be , because it puts it “ at the heart of europe . ” most commentators have tended to assume that if that is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen , because , after all , he is prime minister . it is the decision , made virtually independently by prime minister tony blair and even against his wishes . the only question now in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite at all , ” not before the next election , or simply “ no . ” like courtiers who surround louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing .
but what can be done to stop the demons that have already been unleashed ? the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s current problems are deteriorating , and enormous opportunities are being missed . there has been some opposition from trump when he has failed to condemn the clearly white supremacist protesters in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ “ unite ” the proper ” rally in august ended in the assassination of a counterprotester . and , though stopped , can the damage they have already wrought are now being reversed ? trump has been rejecting outright reasoned discourse , including through his commitment to truth and evidence , ” ” ” and ” ” ” ” ” has been met with unlimited capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such restive emotions as racism and classroom envy .
that might seem broadly beneficial , but it would help only those at very high enough fiscal brackets to itemize deductions – mostly us households with annual disposable income above $ 75,000 ( the median american household income stood at $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . what is certain now is that trump ’s own tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is little indication of how either he would finance his tax policies , with each passing indication that they would sharply expand the us budget deficit . the question for whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , given that , in contrast to all other us presidential candidates since richard nixon , he refused to loosen his income-tax filings . finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for average childcare expense .
africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the root cause of migration on – and off – the continent . since its inception in 2008 , asean has created tens of thousands of jobs , and is now operating in 24 countries . and , in south africa , marshall parker , a founder of the country ’s social-innovation academy and incubator rlabs , has created a virtual currency , known as zlato encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . when young people attend courses , access laptops , or book rooms at rlabs cafes , they are earning zlato the credit that can be exchanged for food , health care , and fundamental necessities . for example , entrepreneurs , with support from the anzisha prize , have created more than 300 jobs , generating more than $ 850,000 in capital .
british leaders need to acknowledge that any brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , with the country urgently needed to hold domestic debates to rank voters ’ preferences . avoiding that scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy in the name of a good friday agreement and territorial integrity . but that would upset hardline brexiteers , and may have divided the conservative party , the risk that theresa may has been reluctant to take . british leaders need to acknowledge that any brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , with the country urgently needed to hold domestic debates to rank voters ’ preferences . but that would upset hardline brexiteers , and could split the conservative party , risk that theresa may has been reluctant to take .
the importance of diaspora funding , from working-class indians ’ remittances , which transformed kerala ’s rural countryside into one million poured into high tech firms in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors , simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . likewise , the country obtained $ 70 billion of its remittances from remittances last year , more than double its inward foreign direct investment levels . encouraging them to do even more , and to give them reasons to do more , surely represents a worthwhile task for india ’s government – and the overt target of its annual conclave . but the us should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest a lower share of its resources in india than overseas chinese do in china . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect of the pravasi bharatiya divas celebration , as suggested by a number of parallels in seminars running by state governments to attract expatriate investment .
in response to concerns among customers , staff and shareholders alike , apple has been improving working conditions , agreeing to regular reviews by an independent observer . firms that rank poorly at risk are losing both sales and investors , and they are triggering official regulatory action . in response to concern among their customers , staff and shareholders alike , apple has been improving working conditions and agreeing to regular reviews by an independent observer . apple , for example , has recently been rocked by revelations about the brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where much of its iphones and ipads are assembled . firms that are ignoring the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and brand losses , falling sales , difficulty in recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , corruption , stricter government regulation , or rising climate-change-related costs .
the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent high-profile published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry asians ) , argued that this type of demographic shift explains much of an increase in saving rates as the chinese substituted capital investment in child investment . but income growth and demographics do not account for everything , either . at the same time , they tolerate enterprise or government policies that create incentives for high savings . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent high-profile published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this type of demographic shift explains much of the increased saving rate as the chinese substituted capital investment in child investment . that prevented the birth rate from rebounding from rebounding in the aftermath of the cultural revolution of 1966-76 .
most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s achievement as a leader rested more on his or her emotional than his analytical iq . while the concept is modern , the notion is not new . in the 1930s , the former us high court justice oliver wendell holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; world-class temperament . ” most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s achievement as a leader rested more on his or her emotional than his analytical iq analytical . asked later on his impressions as president , holmes famously quipped , “ second-class intellect ; the first-class temperament . ”
ever since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by an almost ceaseless civil war based on the north-south cultural and religious divide . an artificial fusion of predominantly arab , muslims from north sudan , and the africa south , where christianity and the traditional buddhist faith are predominant , has been an abject failure . an artificial fusion of predominantly arab countries , muslims in the north of sudan , and the africa south , where christianity and the traditional buddhist faith are predominant , has been an abject failure . if the non-muslim south were to gain at independence for much of its religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , it is inconceivable that the country can remain at peace . matters have subsequently been complicated by isolated conflicts , this time among muslims , over resources in western darfur .
when i was the administrator of the undp , i was forced to grapple with the constant requests ” of the government ’s representatives . but i also got requests – often from the global superpowers – in a sense that staff and management can and should behave according to article 100 . as a rule , they were formulated in an acceptable manner , asking me to “ look into ” a specific issue . when i was a administrator of the undp , i was forced to grapple with the constant requests ” of governments . yet my global experience at the undp and the world bank has suggested that staff and governance can and should behave according to article 100 .
these investors appeal not only to curb rising temperatures , but also to fulfill the paris climate agreement ’s more difficult target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . more broadly , the investor agenda for the low-carbon world attracted 477 signatories , representing about $ 34 trillion in stock-market assets . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost about $ 90 trillion over the past decade , accounting for some $ 34 trillion of us holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 trillion over the past three years , owing to the company ’s misjudged the pace of the shift toward green energy and the collapse of demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations . meanwhile , the us department of energy economics and financial analysis finds that those ignoring climate-change warnings have already taken a financial hit .
but trouble with america ’s allies , especially japan ’s , might draw the us into the struggle that it wants strongly to avoid . the entire world has a large stake in what will happen next . in short , china is on the edge of large , indispensable , and dangerous transformations that promise to transform the country for the sake of a better – or to make everything , including regional stability – far worse . conflict with the united states over the last three years is unlikely . at such a delicate time , china would gain nothing from antagonizing america .
south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer has likened the bill to an apartheid law . at the end of november , the lower-house parliament , headed by the majority of africa ’s national people ’s congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly endorsed a new law , an “ “ “ “ “ “ protection ” of the state ’s information bill ” – whose acceptance would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer , in many cases , has likened the bill to an apartheid law . south africa adopted the freedom of information law in 2000 , five years before the united kingdom did . now , however , the information right in south africa is in jeopardy .
above all , domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with us corporate debt accumulated to dangerous levels . it is also becoming more sustainable in line with the shift in its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to the next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china has been calling loudly for new structural reform pledges to spur growth in the advanced and emerging-market economies . yet , at home , china is facing major risks . washington , dc , in recent years , the chinese economy has been slowing , yet it still represents a powerful performer , contributing about one-third of overall economic growth worldwide .
in less than 15 years , china has departed from playing a rather peripheral economic role in latin america to become one of the region ’s top investors and trade partners for most of the region ’s countries , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . yet that is precisely what has been done , and it is precisely what has been happening . the question now is whether that is good news for latin america . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly – a trend that appears unlikely to change anytime soon – china has now set its sights on yet another goal : expanding its geopolitical clout in the region and beyond . hong kong – in the early that century , when china initiated its “ go out ” policy – focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to encourage overseas expansion and acquisitions of chinese firms , few expected that the country would quickly emerge as the top economic player in latin america .
there is little question , however , about which america ’s candidate putin would like to see in the white house . both are consummate propagandists and the performers , respectively . and both are well prepared – even longing – to bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead . in the remarks following the press conference , trump praised trump as having been a highly colorful , talented person ” , and an absolute leader in the us presidential race . the two men certainly deserve one another .
the first was to embrace the center right ’s agenda and pursue labor-market , taxation , and investment policies to adjust ” france toward “ capitalist ” globalization . somewhat surprisingly , this is precisely the route that he initially opted out , quickly becoming the darling of a business-oriented international press . the other avenue would have required that macron construct on a pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . as the economist dani rodrik has argued for a long time , greater globalization requires a larger nation-state , in order to compensate for those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so on . in practice , this would entail pursuing supply-side policies to help the middle class , while updating the outdated center-left agenda to account for the effects of disruptive technology and business models .
under a vindictive scenario , on the other hand , trump and the us congress could try to curtail the rights of progressive states . “ if you live in a state that wishes to mandate maternal coverage for everybody , including the 60-year-old women , that is ’s fine , ” ” that ’s ’s fine , ” ” ” ” and if one does n’t , “ do n’t , ” “ then you can figure out how to change a state that you live in ” or changing “ state legislatures and state laws , ” ” in mulvaney ’s words . mick mulvaney , trump ’s ’s ’s budget director , has made that case . in a vindictive scenario , on the other hand , both trump and the us congress could try to curtail the rights of progressive states .
south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the country ’s nuclear industry through a non-renewal of existing license and bans on future plants . whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s gdp are met with nuclear weapons , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new competitive edge within the regional marketplace . for years , over-dependence on traditional fuels has discouraged power-generation investment in clean-energy technologies , despite the fact that the two countries are innovators in green industries , such as energy storage and smart grids . blueprints continues to be formulated , but adopted by the two countries with pledges to mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies .
because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls on inflows of american dollars , as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply . yet china ’s rulers are right to put aside the decision to float . a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital markets and eliminates limits on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender its currency supply and interest rates to the u.s. level . because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency and america ’s fed controls on the supply of american dollars as long as china sticks to its fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply . a floating currency is inevitable because china liberalizes its capital markets and eliminates limits on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender its currency supply and interest rates to america .
as the paris accord recognizes , many scholars believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be extraordinarily expensive , especially for the developing world and israel . so , we are in a race , and we are in a race to look at each other . in fact , even that level may not be low enough . the good news is that if we somehow put off all emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only ten years or so before stabilizing . the good news is that if we somehow put off all emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only ten years or so before stabilizing .
mind you , western citizens are given a blessing to living in an era of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be countered through the democratic process , rather than foreign and civil wars . but what , precisely , is an equitable , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining choices ? i fear that it wo n’t be a pretty image . mind you , western citizens are given a blessing to living in an era of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be countered through the democratic process in the eu and foreign and civil wars . indeed , no one has any clue to the consequences , either for the uk in the global trading system or the effect of domestic political stability .
defense expenditure amounts to 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom reach 3 % . but confining talk of a defense commitment of 8 % of gdp spent on the us military is insufficient , because there are economies of scale up in defense spending . instead , america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and america ’s defense expenditure is likely to grow even larger in the years to come . so one would expect the smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense than larger ones . security and global influence are not the only benefits that come through military spending .
new york – in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back on the immediate postwar era , and he felt as though he had been “ “ present at the creation of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . ” even before the summit commenced , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south korea , and japan were consulting in earnest about the need for new alliances to rescue the multilateral system . anxiety went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would have said , to do , or to a tweet . yet , at the unga earlier this year , many attendees felt as though they were present at the devastation of that world . new york city , at the 73rd session of the un general assembly earlier this month , was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders .
in the medium term , the world abounds with the tensions and potential crises that american leadership is probably indispensable to resolving it . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is profoundly volatile ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel could well be thrown into existence at any given time . as events over the last two weeks in egypt demonstrate all too vividly , the arab awakening still stands only in its first act in many countries . indeed , democracy is brittle , at best throughout north africa ; and in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have only just begun to feel a ripple blow from a tidal wave of sweeping the region . even with america out of the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one in order to create a united opposition , and cooperating with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker a deal .
in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive power in entrepreneurship , finance , or government experienced warsaw , the european project can no longer be viewed as conditioning europe on its collective future . these new leaders have envision europeans only as a trade regime . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing a country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe . the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , in the aftermath of the subprime crisis and the failures of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first-impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . there would have been no common european plan for addressing the crisis , and no call for public money .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . such failings are particularly visible in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic .
such a pact – calling for the “ united economic space ” – is now entering into the hands of russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , the “ united states economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , sadly , the treaty will merely entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and nefarious business practices , rather than increase free trade or prosperity . when is the underlying purpose of the treaty is neither about trade nor liberty . when is the underlying purpose of the treaty is neither about trade nor freedom .
nahda ’s ascent ( the renaissance ) , the leader of the islamist ennahda party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among the newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s spectacular capacity to fill the post-revolutionary political power vacuum . scores of volunteers are deployed in electoral campaigning at grassroots levels , door-to-door levels . nahda ’s ascent ( renaissance ) , the leader of the islamist ennahda party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among the country ’s newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable capacity to fill the post-revolutionary political power vacuum . nahda has opened more than 200 offices since january . while opponents ominously recall the participation of party cadres in the lethal bombings of march 1991 , nahda has gone to some lengths to appease his critics .
but , since the end of the 1990s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have amassed very large volumes of foreign reserves since the end of the 1990 ’s , they reflect both an export-led growth strategy and a desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency ’s attacks , which triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was america ’s treasury bills . consider the first contends that the us dollar ’s ’s per dollar status as an international reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have an extremely liquid , widely accepted currency to bridge the funding gap if their imports surpassed their exports . the problem is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” in the traditional sense .
good economics , on the other hand , recognizes the government ’s readiness to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . it is extremely difficult for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can generate bad economics . yet hungary , for example , offers a clear example . by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy .
the united nations ’ food and agricultural organization ( fao ) argues that rising food prices could result in rising global conflict . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common agenda of action , with france ’s then-president nicolas sarkozy proposing the global food partnership . the world bank has forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansions and breaking the cycle of poverty . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to humanity . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a collaborative agenda for action , with france ’s then-president nicolas sarkozy proposing a global food partnership .
to be sure , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan needs a positive return to breaking even ; and , when most of its assets yield negative nominal returns , such outcomes become increasingly difficult to reach . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest the most of the time , which is less risky than stocks or other volatile assets . and yet negative bond yields are also occurring in countries and regions where the currency is depreciating and will likely depreciate further , including germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan . many long-term investors , like insurance and pension funds , have no alternative , because they are obliged to hold safer bonds . so , why are investors holding such assets ?
the trouble is that , in pursuing these reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . in his first year and a half in office , macron started to redress these problems , and he succeeded in delivering an eu-wide budget . with opinion polls indicating that around 70 % of french support for the “ yellow vest ” protesters , macron was forced to step down . and so , when it was announced that his administration would raise taxes on diesel fuel , middle – and working-class commuters took to the streets . step by step up , his reforms seem consistently to be benefiting the wealthy .
yet perspectives that refute that narrative seem to be gaining ground . many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their influence over the international system , by intervening politically and militarily in the rest of the world , without a clear endgame . there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation in recent years , rooted in part in fears – stoked in part by populist political leaders in much of the world – that supranational “ elites ” are attempting to impose “ globalism ” on globalism : the “ ideology ” that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . as it stands , perhaps the greatest barriers to international cooperation are political . some also argue that the global elite have only simply been pretending to pursue socioeconomic change while actually maintaining the status quo that has benefited them .
with rising demand , firms would hire , and everyone would be well off . first , while low tariffs may stimulate spending if credit were easy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go off and spend . by raising inflation , the fed would turn real interest rates into serious negative effects , thereby coercing thrifty households into expenditure , rather than being saved . this is another rationale from the one calling for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at the expense of investors ) ; but it also has just as serious vulnerabilities . think of the soon-to-retire office worker .
the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . while the g-8 made a clear promise , there is no roadmap for how to fulfill it ; indeed , there have been some clear instructions that no such plan would have been achieved . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , has increased by an average of just 2 % . with these debt cancellation operations largely finessed , data are now revealing a stark truth : development aid to africa and the poor is more generally stagnant , in contrast to all promises it had been made . for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , the aid numbers were padded by misleading debt cancellation operations .
and , while inequality has been rising in some advanced economies , the rise has not been particularly dramatic , and remains at reasonable levels at reasonable rates . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been inequality . but that is not what an average citizen sees as an average citizen . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s ’s ’s new transition report , based on a transition survey of 2015-2016 , in the context of a transition survey produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived rise in inequality far surpasses that of the reality described by official figures , typically comes from household surveys . yet , on the global level , inequality has been declining .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve ’s system is one of the world ’s most powerful members of the world ’s history . and , though the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that resulted from the global economy ’s near-meltdown of 2008-2009 , the post-crisis reform left it even more competent and more responsible for overseeing the financial system . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political position is far more precarious than its leadership appears to have recognized . washington , dc , – the united states federal reserve system – is one of the world ’s most powerful members of the world ’s history . america has a central bank ’s control over us dollar resources , and currently exerts a great deal of interest rates , both for short - and long-term us borrowing . that is an alarming outcome , given that senior fed officials seem to have been falling back in their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even as those concerns are voiced by members of america ’s senate banking committee .
as a result , scientists and engineers are facing daunting challenges during the anthropocene era : to steer the us toward environmentally sustainable governance . at this stage , however , the us remains largely treading on the terra of incognita . unless there is a global catastrophe – a meteorite impact , world war ii , or pandemic – humanity will remain a major environmental force for many millennia . that will require appropriate human behavior at all levels , and perhaps well , involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to optimize the climate of climate change . more by luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation has not developed .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in the countries that recently emerged from dictatorship . in all of these cases , cyprus would have been half-right . but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion . constitutional change is for political leaders to be welcomed by a welcome distraction from a far more change-resistant social-policy issue . one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that recently emerged from dictatorship .
and it has been driven in part by unforeseen growth in real-estate investment , to more than 6 % . this undermines corporate profitability , spurring firms to deleverage and reduce investment , and fueling additional declines in ppi . nowhere is this to say that what china needs are more real-estate investment . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economic rise reflects trends from the first three quarters of this year to the third quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace of seven years of seven years , surpassed market expectations .
but this does not mean that trump ’s skeptics may just sit back , waiting out , and waiting for it to prove wrong , because it may be possible in the first year that the announced us trade deficit will narrow , even as the true us trade deficit widens . iran ’s affiliate imports some of the inputs ( most notably , the intellectual property represented by the drug-patent ) , assembles the product in iran , and exports it back to the us . it all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” ” ” – the pricing of multinational corporations that uses the us to place a value on cross-border trade in inputs among its subsidiaries . in terms of value-added terms , the us patent makes its biggest contribution . consider the american drug company , which sets up a plant in iran .
local ngos , together with responsible global partners , must find new support to programs that educate women about their rights and grant them access to safe abortion services . and yet , owing to american policies , neither of these changes will come easily . solutions start at home , which is precisely why developing countries need to start moving away from conditional aid that restricts health-care providers ’ capacity to work according to local law . the recommendations included increasing affordable transportation for family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing sex-education availability , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . and yet , in the wake of american policies , neither of these changes will come easily .
we want technology firms to play a central role in providing fresh thinking and disruptive thinking . what makes that fund unique is not the set of new benchmarks that it sets in . we want technology firms to play a central role in offering new thinking and disruptive thinking . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection can motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . in establishing that fund , we are ending the era of a formulaic crisis response .
but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has started to pull itself together . east ukraine may have voted in different ways from the rest of the eu , but the overwhelming majority of voters turned out in europe ’s favor . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but was in turmoil . the debate over an association agreement with the european union , together with the us-backed rebellion in the east ’s east , stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but plunged into turmoil .
the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu ’s banking union , which is under stress from both brexit and the crises gripping italy ’s banking systems . it is likely to happen , too , for a new chair of the basel committee itself . the bank for international settlements ’ new general managing director , agustín carstens , the former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , because will whoever replaces mark carney ( the bank of england ’s current governor ) next year as the fsb chairman . the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu ’s banking union , which is under stress from both brexit and the crises gripping italy ’s banks . regulators now have been keenly focused on the brexit implications , which will require a complex arrangement to manage the new relationship of london and the eurozone .
the crisis has made it abundantly clear that domestic supervision of banks operating globally is inadequate . supervision , greater transparency in financial markets , an efficient early-warning system for financial crises , and improved international policy coordination . there is a clear need for international regulatory coordination on regulation . the crisis resolution mechanisms for banks operating globally have created a spillover effect on other countries . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks operating globally have created spillover effects from other countries .
indeed , american extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . trade with iran can easily become denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoiding american banks . europeans can counter american threats of extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily become denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoiding american banks . indeed , american extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat .
when a sufficient share of the creditors agreed to a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s outstanding debt have been done ) , others may be compelled to go along . such treaties should also include collective-action clauses , making it impossible for vulture funds to hold back debt restructuring . countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . but so , too , is the court ’s ’s decision , which evidently assigned little weight to their arguments . the fact that the international monetary fund , america ’s department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos have all joined in opposing vulture funds , is revealing .
but expanding demand and allowing genuine effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough unless other countries do their part . knowing what to do in this increasingly complicated and volatile situation is the easy part : look at multilateral consultation policy plans and “ merely do it . ” as america ’s treasury ’s recent semiannual report to the american people ’s congress noted , for china , such plans are worth “ rebalancing ” to the us economy : boosting domestic demand and an consumption-led growth regime ; and achieving greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . oil exporters need to increase fiscal spending further ; japan and the european union must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and america needs to undertake concrete action to sustain a higher savings rate . indeed , a rebalancing of the growth pattern is the central economic objective of china .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . washington , dc , – – for more than 80 years – has been the ultimate measure of an economy ’s welfare state . yet , as the world ’s economies become increasingly intricate and technology-oriented , economists are increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as an indicator of the economy ’s health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience demonstrates why such an approach is needed badly .
the notion that it should not take steps to protect its interests is an ideological partiality masquerading as objectivity , and it lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out of getting it . and western policies toward russia – for example , economic sanctions or military exercises in the border countries like poland – are not necessarily mistaken . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s own pockets should certainly be worrying to the americans . and western policies toward russia , through economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland , are not necessarily mistaken . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the us remains a positive global power .
according to the oecd and the un climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 trillion in 2013 , and $ 61.8 trillion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience to the effects of climate change , which can no longer be avoided . but larger financial flows are necessary , particularly from the private sector . while it is important to note that this figure is just estimate , it represents a tentative but credible climate finance indicator , based on information provided by developed countries . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment is being honored . if one assumes greater leverage over private-sector investment , the number would be greater .
then there is a set of questions related to the impact of new technologies . first among such sources of insecurity is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to a breakdown , or will more multipolarity undershooting greater resilience ? moreover , while the era of interstate conflict has been declining , intrastate conflicts fueled by a youthful population , identity politics , and scarce resources continue to plague some regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . likewise , will governments and institutions be able to adjust quickly enough to harness change or be overwhelmed by it ? and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing topic : whether regional instability remains contained or fueled by global insecurity .
if the bush administration sought stable , secure , diverse , and inexpensive oil supplies , it could simply lift embargos on libya , iran , afghanistan , afghanistan , iraq , and sudan , and let the country 's oil gush . but american interest in iraqi oil has not been driven either by economics or by energy policies . the irony , however , is that the u.s. has exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un 's pre-war `` oil-for-food program '' program ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future democratic iraq . the bush administration has recognized that mainly iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical asset . whoever controls iraqi oil controls on iraq .
but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach . one hundred of india ’s oligarchs hold their assets equal to 25 % of gdp , whereas 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than $ 1 per day . moreover , although china is becoming the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far wealthier than the chinese , with per capita gdp per capita in america four times the size of china . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice constitute the concomitant capitalist culture in the west . but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach .
as a rule , the us government has been moving in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising the marginal tax rate at the bottom ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) and , more recently , at the very top ( by raising tax rates on the wealthy ) . as a rule , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that the marginal tax rate is very high at the bottom ( owing to the means tested by the welfare program ) and the very top ( thanks to the gradualist interest-rate regime ) . typically , that principle implies that the marginal tax rate is expected to be similar at various levels of labor income , to different kinds of consumption levels , for outlays today versus tomorrow , and so forth . one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is america ’s payroll taxes , for which the marginal tax rate is approaching an average rate ( because deductions are absent , and there is little rate graduation ) . that is why cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 and making rates schedule more graduated ( by the medicare tax rate ) in 2011-2012 , and making rates schedule more graduated ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) and , more recently , at the top ( by raising the tax rates on the wealthy individuals ) .
so long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy – and are not taking measures to restrain the impact of international prices on home prices – domestic rice prices and other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices are doing so . rising interest rates can bring down aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame rising prices for some goods and services , particularly nontraded goods and services . for example , even as global energy and food prices rise at an even slower pace than they are now – a 20 % average year on year and get stuck in home prices – bringing overall inflation to a level , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere . but , unless they are addressed to intolerable levels , those measures by themselves can not bring inflation down to targeted levels . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries need to pay more for their grain ; they must pay more to their countries , and still do more to deliver it to consumers , who can live long distances from ports .
yet defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders . such a pattern is a formula for perpetual conflict and perpetual defeat . leaders who have brought on the failures , and groups that have not been proven to be heroes for claiming to be courageously fighting an enemy without being brushed aside . an important point for them is that they have acquired revenge by inflicting harm on them , shown that they are true men , do not buckle under , and have survived . thus , they are not formally giving up nothing , but any of them .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . while america has been deeply divided in 2017 , americans remain committed to democracy ’s central tenets : free , fair , and periodic elections and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is unlikely to try to overturn any of them ; and , even if he tries , he or she does so , he will fail . america ’s basic governance institutions have survived larger challenges than any that trump may represent . as he leaves office , america will essentially be what it was when it entered it : the world ’s preeminent democracy .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent , even when tissue was already removed from the patient ’s body . indeed , who should have access to these samples of their own samples ? nowadays , there are brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood-banks , umbilical banks , and tissue repositories to study a variety of diseases . indeed , virtually all of us have tissue at their disposal somewhere in the world . for what purposes can they be applied ?
they also need to understand better the nature of contextual intelligence that they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies need to learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands . leadership tends to be distributed broadly across healthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders . with soft power , however , empowered followers are boosting leaders . most prominently in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies and broadened participation , democracies need to learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands .
it did so in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un special envoy from traveling to the region in order to set the stage for talks . at the same time , morocco has repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiation . the polisario front fought the war with morocco until the 1991 agreement , when the un brokered a truce agreement . yet morocco , for its part , has prevented it from ever taking a hit . that agreement was ostensibly intended to set the stage for the independence referendum in western sahara a subsequent year of democratic solutions .
moreover , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac a gaullist side of the gaullist party of sarkozy and , with françois mitterrand , royal , just like france . royal openly claims mitterand ’s legacy as she searches for legitimacy , whereas sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form , rather than substance . as in 2002 , the victor next year will whomever be voters dislikes or fear less . to a large degree , sarkozy may be viewed as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand with less . when voters make their choice in the spring of 2007 , their choices may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac confronted the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round .
likewise , chinese officials became more willing to discuss the creation of a us code of conduct for the south china sea . with obama reluctant – or not – owing to rising political partisanship at home , owing to rising political partisanship at home – taking the lead in resolving crises such as those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to america ’s primacy took heart in 2014 , with america ’s allies taking the fright . but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing , as well as its confluence of us-led interests , offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo petroleum platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , sending surveillance vessels to the senkaku islands less often . global power must be allocated somewhere ; unless the us will fill its leading role on the international scene , the understudy would have to tread .
labor-force participation rates in the us have fallen to levels not seen since women started to enter the us labor market at large numbers . there have been some increases in capital requirements – but far short of what is required . yes , the us has done some things to improve its financial markets . the majority of americans ’ incomes and wealth remain well below their levels long before the great recession . indeed , the typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it has been in more than four decades .
what is clear is that american politics , rather than global developments , will be the main determinant of this . the republican presidential campaign , for its part , adds another strand of uncertainty . the two leading contenders for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted ted cruz , both say , that they will tear up the iran nuclear deal if they are elected . what is clear is that american politics , rather than global developments , will be the principal determinant . it is worth recalling the result of president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s nuclear deal with north korea : kim ’s regime promptly and predictably developed a nuclear bomb .
the restoration of stability and an equitable democratic system for moldova is important , first and foremost , because the moldovans deserve a government that is accountable . nonetheless , many remain in the detention and voronin continues to hurl accusations in the opposition and romania of orchestrate the upheaval d’état . president vladimir voronin , on the other hand , has given the impression that amnesty can be brought to justice . the legal process has been opened up against the opposition party ’s opposition parties . stability also matters , because poland ’s borders are borders on romania , the european union ’s member states .
on the eve of their downfall , several arab autocrats were indeed lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in embracing the “ right ” economic policies . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies that had been prescribed to the arab ancien régimes . were economists who were fixated on the wrong indicators ? this raises the raft of other questions , and it is important to say the least . on the eve of their downfall , some arab autocrats were indeed lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in embracing the “ right ” economic policies .
whereas china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after that , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . but the rmb encourages non-residents to hold more rmb-denominated and rmb-denominated assets . as a result of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents had reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) , and the amount could have reached rmb1 trillion by the end of this year . controls are leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) , which means that china has effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years . the key objective for china of capital controls is to prevent non-citizens from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows .
new york – democracy is under direct threat in a country where it should have its deepest cultural and political roots in it . it is democracy that is under direct threat in a country where it should have some of its deepest cultural and political roots . trump does not just want to avoid repeating past policies , because he puts it . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz referred presciently to the age of total warfare that will have reached less than a century after his death . likewise , he and his supporters took aim at the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy rests , including courts , legislative associations , independent media , and more .
so the ecb should be doing more to block a transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; the european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital volumes rather than hitting a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , when necessary , national governments should provide bank lending guarantees to small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . whereas official interest rates are just 1 % , the solvent sovereigns , such as spain , are paying more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , whereas creditworthy firms in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . the european central bank has behaved decisively to prop up european banks ; it now needs supporting the real economy as a whole . the eu needs an immediate focus on boosting investment and exports in economies with current-account deficits – like france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . in short , the eu can not rely on structural reform alone to spur growth in 2012 .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term in office , his running mate privatized most public-sector firms and a deregulated number of service industries . it also promises to cut taxes on income , place the country ’s social security system on firmfooting , and cut costs for shedding labor . as a result , aznar ’s agenda is a reasonable accomplishment . his new government vows to allow the government to continue eliminating public-sector deficits and to slash unemployment . introducing real competition in energy and telecoms , which is sorely lacking in the privatization process until now , is also committed .
cambridge : the internet now pervades any region of business life ; the lurch in business activity over the internet astounds . an important new report by america 's department of commerce , " the emerging digital economy " indicates that the internet is reshaping not only american business , but the global economy . as recently as january 1995 , there were about 27,000 us trade addresses in the internet sector . in 1998 , there are now three million people , mostly american , who used the internet . an important new report by america 's department of commerce , `` the emerging digital economy '' indicates that the internet is reshaping not just american business , but the global economy .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far more intense scrutiny of the environment than more “ natural ” foods . though cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plant operators may take place , so far , no new superweeds have emerged . regulations to protect the environment and consumer health should be sustained . ( natural foods may also pose health risks , as was shown recently by studies establishing that a popular type of cinnamon can cause liver damage . ) we should be glad to do this , and perhaps the regulations introduced in response to fears expressed by environmentalists play a role in this outcome .
we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments remain vigilant . sadly , another lesson from the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally unable to make tough choices until the risks actually materialize . the case for protecting the virus and the development of the virus as a whole represents an uneven arms race . a virus may be just a few hundred lines of the computer code , compared to the hundreds of thousands of lines for the anti-virus schemes that must be designed to spot a broad class of enemies . we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments remain vigilant .
moreover , each dollar invested in such an initiative would generate nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient application of scarce resources . such impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis , conducted by a team of eminent economists tasked with my think tank , a copenhagen consensus center , with assessing potential population-related targets to identify the best global investments . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country workforces would provide a bigger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . such migrant workers ’ tax rates would help the developed countries fund ’s services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country workforces would provide a bigger economic boost than dismantling all remaining trade barriers .
substitution of paracetamol for the aspirin , the researchers suggested , may have led to an enhanced allergic immune response , increasing susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . such studies have led to the suggestion that the use of paracetamol can represent an important risk factor in asthma . replacing paracetamol for the aspirin , researchers suggested , perhaps led to an enhanced allergic immune response , increasing susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , a number of epidemiological studies have reported a field between childhood asthma and the exposure of paracetamol in the uterus , childhood , and adulthood . wellington – known as the acetaminophen in the united states – is one of the most widely used drug in the world . it is the preference of medications for relieving fever and pain , owing to its safety profile ten years ago , a hypothesis suggested that using paracetamol can raise the risk of developing childhood asthma .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the london school of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . “ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the london school of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . mcgruder , working closely with the african astronomers , agrees that a space program for the region is critical to raise the profile of careers in science and engineering around the world , where the most highly educated people still go to finance or administer . today , the country is believed to have around 60 working-age people , compared to more than half of all astronomers working in africa . in a country deeply divided economically , “ what on earth ” benefits the poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ?
the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all of today ’s other ingredients of discontent with crony capitalism have become inescapable . because neither banks nor investors had sufficient money to plough in a networked mega-firms , the mega-bank emerged in the form of a global bank cartel and shadow funds , each with its own shareholders . in this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads – particularly in post-2008 realities – that upheld total control over societies through mega-firms and mega-banks . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all of today ’s other ingredients of discontent with crony capitalism have become inescapable . mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises have been the logical result .
just a few years ago , forecasters were confident that the global imbalances would reemerge as soon as the crisis receded . just a few years ago , forecasters were confident that the global imbalances would reemerge as soon as the crisis receded . that now seems unlikely : neither the u.s. nor china is reverting to its pre-crisis pace of growth or spending patterns . america ’s trade position will be enhanced by the shale-gas revolution , which promises energy self-sufficiency and increases in productivity that auger further reshoring of manufacturing . nor are earlier trade balances to re-emerge .
both governments have been cracking down on nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted media . during the electoral campaign , orbán has ’s rule saturated the country into xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . yet , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can at times find a credible message alleging that both prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are pillaging eu funds to take advantage of privileges for themselves , their families , and their business associates . indeed , orbán ’s fidesz party has been the subject of multiple investigations by europe ’s anti-fraud office . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can at times find a credible message alleging that both prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are pillaging eu funds to take advantage of themselves , their families , and their business associates .
following these debates , america ’s national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that permit the use of stem-cell research but , in their current form , prohibiting federally-financed investigators from establishing new stem cell lines . that limitation requires that stem cell lines simply from privately-financed , or in commercial sources that follow the guidance protocols . we know that a diversity of poorly understood factors causes embryonic stem cell stem cells to lose capacity to differentiate capacity in all potential cellular types . we know that a diversity of poorly understood factors causes embryonic stem cells to miss out on capacity to differentiate capacity in all forms of cellular types . following these discussions , the american national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that enable the use of government funds for stem-cell research , but , in their current form , prohibit federally-financed investigators from the creation of new stem cell lines .
whereas bank regulators have the tools to push the banks similarly , their most efficient one is the power to trigger a default when the economy is best . in the nonfinancial sector , bankrupt companies often wait too long before declaring bankruptcy , so that creditors can step in to do some of the squeeze , potentially even forcing the insolvency of an bankrupt firm . yet , far from accepting these contributions , the scheme would largely cut regulators off from the process . taking this tool off might have severe unintended adverse consequences . in the nonfinancial industry , bankrupt companies often wait until they declare bankruptcy , which is why creditors can step in to do some push , potentially even forcing the insolvency of an bankrupt firm .
investment in alternative energy technologies , such as solar and wind , is no longer peddled on environmental grounds . the copenhagen consensus center asked gül , the chief energy economist at the center for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at texas university at austin , to assess the “ science ” state of science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of green jobs . sadly , this does not measure up to the reality of economic reality alone . copenhagen consensus has moved away from the need to respond to the country ’s top-down generational challenge ” of climate change . instead , purported economic payoffs are being told , first and foremost , by the promise of so-called “ green ” jobs .
after all , we entered an era in which speed , even more so than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity of experimentation across all sectors is vital to success . in today ’s ’s ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of the newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the most rapidly . it is absolutely vital to add this text to the new method , which is tailed to the contemporary world in which politics no longer happens in the muffled ministerial meetings ’ debates or the convoluted communiqués . yet it is regrettable that the treaty ’s 27th articles are very murky . genuine engagement by civil society is just the only way to spur two struggling governments and overcome their conservatism .
that means focusing on the promotion of market economies and a stable government , rather than subsidizing failed states and failed states . while there is much that the us can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa still can reap the benefits of international aid . somaliland and ethiopia , for example , are collaborating on building a gas-export pipeline pipeline from ethiopia in the former ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the world ’s poorest and least-developed parts . but the international community needs more than delivering food and medicine to victims of famine and droughts . while there is much that the us can and will be able to help ourselves , the horn of africa still can reap the benefits of international aid .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . it is that citizens have voted at far greater numbers than anyone expected . trento – the most significant outcome of the recent european parliament election – is neither that the conservatives and the social democrats have lost their seats to the liberals and the greens , or that far-right nationalists have won fewer than anticipated .
nevertheless , the laudable efforts to prevent such a thing from recurring have had unfortunate consequences . for , in our zeal to learn the lessons of history , we are often learning the wrong ones , or distort history toward dubious ends . in a sense , the killings at srebrenica , too , were affected by memories of world war ii . even when mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly spectacularly unusual . we now know that hitler had plans to destroy every last jewish person , a woman and a child .
this may restrict political liberty in the name of greater equality . yet it is also citizens ’ duty to preserve the formal , political , meaning of citizenship , as state intervention broadens , in order to ensure everyone ’s good . democratic principles are calling for the organizing society in ways that both values can be realized to the fullest possible scale . this is the paradox intrinsic to democracy and the responsibility of politicians to cope with the tensions to which it gives rise . but the path to particularistic action that does not undermine liberty and equality for all citizens is narrow .
do those figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are the usual signs of a boom ? stock market prices would have been a lot too high , and they would have been far too high . the exterior imbalances would have been unjustifiable , in fact , unsustainable . households would have been behaving in an environment of totally irresponsible behavior . if america ’s growth rate in the coming decades remains what it has been over the last 30 years , the answer is straightforward and terrifying .
baverez 's show of degeneration is not nearly as compelling as he believes . true , france is in fact superior to most of its wealthy country rivals , and , unlike in germany , france , the united kingdom , or switzerland , has retained the same global market share in the industrialized economies it had during the early 1970s . but deindustrialization is common for all the advanced countries . baverez 's evidence of degeneration is not nearly as compelling as he believes . moreover , according to a superior measure of comptetitiveness , foreign investment , france does very well .
if italy and the eu failed to grasp the need for jobs with non-european countries and to force them to feel that they are accountable and fully-fledged protagonists , the effort to establish the icc , and be so close to declaring a universal moratorium on capital punishment , would fail . that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has enemies . a second lesson that i have learned is also helpful for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge , and where all actors from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , need to come to terms with the challenges of today ’s globalization and interdependence . that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has enemies . these friends , for example , deserve the respect and attention they need .
of course , he has not offered any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants , who have rescued the lives of outsiders , even though such cases have been reported . empathy makes the us kinder to the people of whom the us is empathizing . trump , in his campaign ’s speeches , made use of the tragic assassinations of compiling steinle startups by an undocumented immigrant to harass support for his anti-immigrant policies . this is a good thing , but so , too , does it . the problem is that empathy for american workers runs into a tension with empathy for us workers in mexico and chile is bound to be even worse off than their american counterparts are .
small countries are subject to market discipline , as any latvian will tell you . this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely to use its bully bully pulpit to warnings of risk creation by large-country policies . or it might be that national policymakers do not trust the imf , given that it essentially missed out on the global financial crisis . if it does , the fund needs to win back into confidence . financial markets and global institutions need a global macro-prudential regulator , and not only the loosely organized university of supervisors .
in any technologically progressive economy , prices are supposed to fall , except in a few niche markets . in any case , businessmen do not need low levels of inflation to expand production ; they need to do so only with the prospect of more quantity and less sales . this is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize price levels . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall , except in a few niche markets . they need only the prospect of more us sales .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is about half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s size , and more than twice india ’s size . these divergences help to explain why a number of new acronymic groupings have since been carved up by the n-11 states , including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . eight years later , the fog economies still have a fair chance of accounting for about 2-3 % of world gdp in the future . i did not devise these groupings , but i came up with them , produced a bbc radio documentary on mint countries in 2014 . at any rate , they kept up with earlier points of reference ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , india , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp .
and , because us president donald trump treated the issue as a political challenge to his victory ’s legitimacy , his administration , too , has failed to take strong action . american intelligence agencies have alerted us president barack obama to russian actions , warning putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . following the election , obama walked public and expelled russian spies and shut down some us diplomatic facilities , but america ’s weakness undercut any deterrent . yet obama was reluctant to call out russia publicly or to take tough actions on fear that russia will escalate by invading electoral machinery , or by voting rolls and jeopardizing hillary clinton ’s supposed victory . america ’s brilliance on information warfare has been to combine existing technology with an amount of deniability that remains just below the overt attack threshold .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . it is changing its head-spinning positions , repeatedly disavowing statements early on soon after making them . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered meaningless in just a couple of hours . but , on tax policy , trump has boiled down to the party line . donald trump has rattled the way in the campaign , how the nominee communicates with voters and the republican party ’s platform , with many of his positions deviated from gop tradition .
moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from being resolved : the minsk ceasefire agreements are in place , and the armed confrontation may escalate , at any moment . then there is russia ’s role in syria . russia withdrew from a series of nuclear agreements , with the kremlin recently placed iskander missiles capable of shipments of medium-range nuclear facilities , in kaliningrad , near the polish border . and it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive documents and funding right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , to support the kremlin . then there is russia ’s role in syria .
why , then , does it seem to despise the eu so profoundly ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking when china ’s rapid emergence as an emerging strategic rival is america ’s main national-security issue . but the larger question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why , then , does he seem to despise the eu so profoundly ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking , given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s main national-security issue .
the report – a product of a few months of debate within the german foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany today ’s current values and interests as a commitment to human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order underpinned by universal norms . achieving that objective requires germany to become a “ shaping power , ” ” a state with the capacity to resolve challenges and resolve conflicts that influence all or within the international community . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that enable it to work well with others , as well as to shape and deploy and deploy “ coalitions of like-minded states . ” as gauck has shown , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the preserve and ongoing adaptation ” of that order . the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic heft , and military might – in conjunction with resource availability and technological proficiency remain important ; but they often are inadequate to confer true influence on international politics .
even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister , and a outspoken critic of the pis government , has concluded : i believe that trump ’s speech is very well done . he has made a powerful display of allusions to poland ’s history , and has been very flattering to the us as poles . and he has implicitly denounced gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to assist poland in diversifying its gas supplies . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister , and an outspoken critic of the pis government , has concluded : i believe that trump ’s speech is very well done . with his performance , trump has managed to draw enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not only from poland , owing in part to his public greeting opposition leader lech wałęsa , who has booed pis supporters and remains the constant destination of jarosław kaczyński , poland is an unelected strongman leader .
on the other hand , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility , and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the rest of the world . add to that all of this activity in the offshore renminbi market , which is small in scale , and has only limited links to the mainland china ’s financial system , the result of china ’s hesitancy of financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility , the situation remains controllable . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page . but this does not mean that there are no risks , either . add to that china ’s other strengths , the annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion , the annual gdp growth rate of at least four percentage points above the global average , of ¥ 3 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) , a saving rate of more than 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis looks very unlikely .
if your behavior is good – ie , you do n’t drink , beat your wife , and , of course , hand money to the church – you are all fine . many polish bishops are almost openly declaring to their flock : you are supposed to be listening , rather than think or argue . in the church that boasts of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” looks startling . even young men are studying for the priesthood is receiving a very weak philosophical training , and that is actually done purposefully . the faith is a matter of heart , and it is a matter of heart .
for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved to be the principal guarantor of free speech , particularly through its judicial reform . freedom of speech and press are guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and its articles of law . as in all democracies , where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular occupation , including journalists , are given no form of immunity from these types of grave criminal charges . moreover , it is important to note that there are more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines in turkey , with total daily circulation of close to five million copies . of the country ’s four most widely read newspapers , four favor opposition over the government .
but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome taking its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and according to the rules established for all . indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are already doing just that in the south china sea in the south china sea . nationalism could become the primary source of the legitimacy of the ruling party , which can no longer point to the rapidly rising standard of living . the american and others will have to push back in order to ensure that china does not act on so much temptation . but larger policy choices will be china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s first emergence .
the great speculative bubbles are rare instances of events , which are different from many in the world today . but contagion rates depend on thinking patterns that are hard to judge . in my opinion , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by some sort of interpersonal contagion . ( little bubbles in the price of , say , individual stocks do occur all the time , and do n’t qualify as an answer to that question . ) in my opinion , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by the kind of interpersonal contagion .
the great communist experiment virtually ends ( to be saved for several holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . the great communist experiment practically ends up ( to be saved for several holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . socialism had its day in court and is found wanting . the right ’s ideology , as represented by the washington consensus , market fundamentalism was not much more successful , even as its failures often go unacknowledged . the past half-century has demonstrated that , while development is possible , it is not inevitable .
like populists well known , this is notoriously difficult to vote out of eu elections abroad , owing to the difficulty registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and overly complex absentee-voting practices . micro-targeting has proved the most effective not of winning out undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting completely . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s ’s ’s own micro-targeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in the core states it needs to win an electoral college . second , with intra-eu migration increasing , there are now almost 15 million europeans residing in eu countries no more than theirs . just as populists are well aware , they are notoriously difficult voting from abroad on eu elections , owing to the difficulty registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and overly complex absentee-voting practices .
it is also perhaps no accident that the global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination . indeed , for more than three centuries of globalization , just three “ currencies ” have dominated : gold , the british pound , and the u.s. dollar . though the deutschemark , the swiss cfa franc and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the us dollar since world war ii , often offering better value stores that are less prone to inflation , none has made permanent inroads into the us dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to erect claims against china , at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve-currency currency . indeed , for more than three centuries of globalization , just three “ currencies ” have dominated : gold , the british pound , and the u.s. dollar .
the turning point in germany ’s public finances has been due mostly to expenditure cuts . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit , approaching 4 % of gdp , perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average at that time . the one area where government clearly has a clear role to play is public finance . in considering which the lessons of germany ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one need to distinguish between what kind of government can and remain the responsibilities of entrepreneurship , workers , and societies at large . today , germany has an balanced budget surplus , with most other eurozone countries running deficits exceeding germany ’s ten years ago .
and if we can no longer count on laboratory experiments to test their causality , then we need to test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . this involves moving beyond a closed , question-and-answer process typical of a laboratory , and applying our ideas in societies , earlier and more often than ever before . an example of such a living lab is the “ open datasets city , ” ” which i started with a team of trento in italy , together with the telecom italia foundation , telefónica , the research university of fondazione bruno kessler , the institute for data-driven data , and local companies . that involves moving beyond a closed , question-and-answer process typical of a laboratory , and applying our ideas in societies , earlier and more frequently than ever before . to see how things work in reality , we need to construct living laboratories of living labs , that are , communities prepared to try new ways of doing things ( to be blunt , act like guinea ) .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but how europe ’s political toolkit operates in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
trade-offs also pervade environmental policies : cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to be done to address other issues . to fix the roof , perhaps we need to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . all of us recognize this from our private budgets , so we all recognize this . when we pick a cheaper wine , perhaps we can splurge dessert . canberra – the trade-offs are an intrinsic element of life .
but june ’s resounding triumph may ultimately lead to an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march in moscow , after having devastated all opposition in western europe . the scorched-earth defeat that the conservative euroskeptics had expected to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces came to be symbolized by the everyday mail headline on may ’s election announcement : scrapping the saboteurs . first , by bringing ahead with the brexit referendum , may effectively prolonged the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from 2019 until 2022 . britain ’s ’s ’s pro-european progressive forces may still well have been brexit won by a landslide victory from the jaws of defeat for three related reasons . london – which british prime minister theresa may ’s election in june 8 will transform the outlook for britain ’s politics and its relations with europe , but not necessarily in ways that an vastly elevated majority for may ’s conservative party might seem to indicate .
elsewhere , of course , this kind of tumult has democratic safety valves . from east to west to west , politics appears to be operating in ways that are supposed to be diplomatic , suboptimal . it is more than strange to argue that the rest of the world must come to terms with the built-in advantage of china ’s exporters of exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change at all . elsewhere , of course , that kind of turmoil has democratic safety valves . then again , perhaps we are also fortunate that matters are no worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union is upward mobility . ever since the single european act of 1986 , the eu removed restrictions on work in other eu member countries , the continent has been the single labor market , at least in theory . the process of integration was meant to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another . yet some recent electoral results indicate that they are more concerned about losing a nation . according to this vision , the eu has had a nation to lose and the continent to gain .
but rising animosity among eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries means that greater federalism is both politically unfeasible and potentially even dangerous . a better possibility would shift toward a more flexible eurozone , in which directly elected national incumbents have more say . with the no-bailout rule recovering , governments would have more room to pursue countercyclical policies and respond to voters ’ changing priorities . a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which directly elected national incumbents have a larger say . but rising animosity among eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible and potentially even dangerous .
bogota , lima , lima , santiago , santiago , santiago – international economic coordination is just as necessary as it is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g20 became the premier primary forum to agree on fundamental principles in areas like fiscal-policy responses and the international monetary fund ’s role . more recently , however , as the g20 sought to reconcile divergent national economic interests and recovery strategies , it was far less successful relative to its original meetings in washington and london in 2009 . in those respects , the g20 was clearly a step forward . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also put some strain on governments regarding what to do .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable , which includes america ’s chief executive officers of the world ’s largest firms , with the combined annual revenue of more than $ 7 trillion , has updated its long-standing declaration on corporate purpose . and the declaration ’s principal author , in his obvious exposés , is reported to have stated that he feels like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . in fact , shareholders have come at last on ceos ’ new list . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . it is not just the interests of shareholders , ceos say , that their firms need to be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , staff , suppliers , municipalities , and the environment .
this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also lead to structural shifts in brazil – are not being ruled out entirely , and thus the need for a new generation of anti-depressant medications is urgently needed . for example , neurogenesis in the dna of dentate gyrus , which is suppressing acute and chronic stress , is elevated to a large number of antidepressant treatments . lithium , a mood stabilizer , and a neuroprotective agent , has the properties that we seek , even though its toxicity make it less than an ideal one . still , one problem for many current medications is that , even with therapy , the recurrence of the great depression is extremely high – about 70-80 % . if it were , then new antidepressants would have to target what appears as the progressive neurodegenerative turn of change in brazil that we infer take place , because a recurrence of depression is so high under currently available therapies .
stanley sue , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davos , switzerland , has been studying a suicide rate that is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males are committing suicide than females ) . chua would reply that reaching high levels of achievement yields great gratification , and that the only way to do things is to do so is through hard work . he believes that family pressure is an important factor , and we need to do so . indeed , tiger parenting aims at getting children to make the most of what the skills they have , and so seem to be lean toward a “ smart ” side of a “ shrewd or fortunate ” choice . that is also the view of catherine ashton , who has blogged in her response to chua ’s article : parents such as amy chua are the reason for the asian-americans like me .
in some cases , they are individuals like president hugo chávez of venezuela ( along with other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s former prime minister , silvio berlusconi . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders in recent years have been able to tap into power . many other names might have been added to the list , but they should be added to the list . one is that a startling number of populist leaders have been able to come to power in recent years . mostly they enter the political scene from france but manage to form an extreme personalized grouping , like jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie le pen and his french nationalists party , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant parties or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia .
after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , though with no acute sense that i was striking as a blow to freedom . fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , with more and fewer children being born from the wedlock . there is obvious status benefits for the minority ; no obvious harm to the majority ; and the longer-term consequences are unfathomable . after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , though with no acute sense that i was striking at the time of freedom . thus , one of the potentially spectacular unintended consequences of the bill might be to add welcome recruits to the married ranks , even if those recruits are historically anomalous .
setting the right example is yet another critical form of communication for leaders . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives have voluntarily reduced their salaries as a means to communicate concern for their employees and public opinion . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives have voluntarily reduced their salaries as a means to communicate their employees and public opinion . ronald reagan was a master of the well chosen anecdote in anecdote . ronald reagan was a master of the well chosen anecdote in anecdote .
at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already be lost . with the g-7 leaders committing , in a recent joint declaration , to address the “ “ antimicrobial resistance ” ” ” ” ” ” ( amr ) , the time is ripe for a more inclusive g20 ally , and china , because it chairs the group for the first time to take action on the next level . the failure to address amr affects everyone , no matter how much nationality or their countries are affected by their countries ’ nationality levels . indeed , ten million more people could be dying from amr by 2050 , up from about 700,000 today , with china and india each home each home housing of just one million sufferers . london – which currently risks becoming increasingly inefficient – is not just to fight common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also to treat a wide range of infections like tuberculosis and malaria that now risks becoming incurable .
sydney – the appointment of five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a stark reminder that china ’s next generation of leaders taking power in 2012 may be the single most significant development in china ’s politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . all five appointees were born after the party ’s founding in 1949 . forgetting that history may doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it may also ease constraints and set its leaders free . the upcoming generation of leaders will be only the first with little or no personal memory of the tumult and hardship endured during mao zedong ’s years in power . all five appointees , hu chun-hua and sunzhengcai , are just 46 years .
first , eu leaders must determine how to resolve the euro crisis . to avoid inexorable decline , europe must reach out to clear choices on three fundamental questions . a cyber superbug , for example , destroys networks on which our way of life has come to depend , resulting in an economic , demographic , and environmental breakdown . at the same time , there is one point in this set of potential outcomes : europe ’s uncertainty ’s role in the future global system . to avoid inexorable decline , europe must reach clear choices on three fundamental questions .
but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , combined with negative interest rates , has caused financial institutions to plummet , leading to another pro-cyclical deflation of value via price deflation , rising illiquidity , and crowded exits . the american dollar is a safe-haven , but savers in need of liquidity continue to lack the impartial lender of last resort . the question now is whether america ’s and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement similar to the 1985 plaza accord , in which the five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . past experience has taught china ’s true engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms , rather than easy money and competitive devaluation . if it does , why should asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue to finance speculation against itself ?
houses are riddled with bullet holes . but real life , too , is traumatic and limited , as well as the limits to the rule of law . we have seen buildings , not only of the former hamas headquarters , which is still in the rubble . and a good deal of traffic – with new cars smuggled through tunnels beneath the “ philadelphi ” route ” – that runs along the egyptian border . there can be no electricity for as high as eight hours per day .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade or longer . falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade to come . but , unlike backward-looking military strategies , flawed monetary policies are producing inevitable damage , rather than mere worrisome risks . in fact , china and hong kong have seen prices plummet recently as far too high . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to struggle with it , and because they may fail to confront the latest economic menace – global deflation .
extraterritorial sanctions are the second way america could kill the jcpoa . the first would have been foment war , so that it would have been the first time . the world needs to steadfastly defy yet another ruinous american military adventure . that is clearly on the american agenda , particularly the neoconservative doyen , john bolton , back in the white house as his national security adviser . even if america is now absents itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means to block the implementation of an agreement between iran and the outside world .
the containment strategy worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but this can not be applied today without flexibility and strategic common purpose . channeling this influence through the newly-created international organization , they argue , tends to temper the raw power grabs . it has probably been in response to this impasse , which china has pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . the critics of america ’s august policy note that , though the american people ’s party thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia and around the rest of the world , one route or another . the size of china ’s economy and its consequent diplomatic weight .
tel aviv – us president donald trump has said much about foreign affairs , without having truly said nothing at all . at a time of evolving challenges and escalating threats , adhering to that narrow-minded , an isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . trump is a businessman , not a statesmanlike . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and losses , a worldview exemplified in his declaration that america ’s allies need more to contribute to their security alliances . his muddled statements offer little insight into what type of foreign policy will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when its approach becomes clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs .
in 2009 , business accounted for 75 % of research and d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose firms are top r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spend more than twice what japanese firms do . but business investment as a share of gdp has been changing very little in the us over the past decade , while it has risen rapidly in many other countries , including chile , singapore , south korea , and israel . global multinationals are america ’s largest business-sector r & d. for example , multinational firms , whether headquartered in the us or elsewhere , have accounted for about 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d. and american multinationals still locate about 84 % of their r & d operations in american states , often in innovation clusters around the world . and american multinationals still locate about 84 % of their r & d operations in american states , often in innovation clusters around the world .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , on average , according to official statistics . but it remains unsatisfactory , because most other countries on a similar stage of development experience have been experiencing more rapid urbanization than industrialization does . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is the fact that chinese cities , large and small ones , lack any signs of significant urban poverty or slums . given that the share of urban dwellers has been just 18 % just 30 years ago , this is notable progress . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at about 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the working-age population , whose income is derived mostly from non-farm activity .
a free electoral process has brought hamas into power in palestine , and the hapless episode in the danish newspaper cartoons illustrates the near combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . nowadays , iraqis may be on the edge of an all-out civil war between shi’ites and sunnis . implementing a democracy with or without regime change was the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . all of these developments are paving the way for the new interpretations of them . iran under a new , more radical president is moving irresistibly toward possessing a nuclear capability .
latin america has been obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , calderón , and lula have no intention of letting chávez lead the way . this has made it easier for lula , especially to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , much less as recently as march 2008 backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc chief raul raul yes . an emerging uribe-lula-calderón ’s troika has geo-strategic clout , because things started to change cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his twin brother , raúl . last january , lula visited isis with a string of leading brazilian businessmen , signing commercial and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . calderón ’s uncompromising hard line on drug dealers in mexico , the unrelenting offensive that follows uribe ’s precedent in handling of the farc , also helped , because economic growth has muted domestic opposition .
new york – the first act began in august 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . before our eyes , the tragedy of a few acts is unfolding , in which both the players and their aims are clear . russian president vladimir putin appears to have accomplished his political objective , namely the arrival of ukraine , which has been dragging on europe throughout the post-soviet period firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . instead , he opted for ukraine into a customs union with russia , in exchange for a stockpile of hard cash and cheap oil and natural gas . what is not known is how many more acts this sorry political spectacle will have , and therefore when – and how – ends .
but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also involve codes of conduct , conventional state practice , and broadly shared expectation of due process among a group ( creating a common law ) . in scope , such constraints can vary from global , plurilateral to bilateral . most experts agree that the treaty of cyberspace currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals at the un ) . but there is the larger question that lurk behind the gdps : can norms really curb state behavior ? though the number of attendees has risen from the original 15 to 25 , most countries have no voice .
monetary policy , however , is a far more awkward , indirect , and imprecise way to select winners and losers than fiscal policies . such considerations should guide the choice of what will be followed by the european stability pact . after all , independent central banks may at times experience the pain of politicians , but at least they may be employed as scapegoats at a time when they are whose political advantages outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool . to be sure , monetary policy also has a redistributive effect . think of the different interest-rate effects on borrowers versus creditor countries .
unlike america , china was not suffering from a liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . as a result , low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than corporate demand , fueled an explosive credit boom during the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target . the government became too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand and , overwhelmed by the downside effects of falling asset prices on economic growth , was too cautious in handling asset bubbles when they re-appeared . unlike america , china was not suffering from liquidity shortages and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . had commercial banks been allowed to base their lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply grew more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , and an asset bubble as excess liquidity moves into equity and real-estate markets .
it is hard to imagine an even more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision . erdogan ’s ’s islamic revolution , too , has expanded into the education system , with the introduction of markedly religious curriculum . by exercising turkey ’s mediation capacity , erdogan is convinced that it will recover the burden of its ottoman forbears as guarantors of the secular state and enhance the government ’s control of the judiciary . to return turkey ’s ’s strategic shift , the new legislation recently made arabic obligatory in schools . now the constitutional reform , supposedly aimed at supporting turkey ’s own eu membership ” would further curb the military ’s role as the custodian of the secular state and enhance the government ’s control of the judiciary .
thus , european integration had to be shaped by actual policies and institutions , rather than by decree . european integration , therefore , had to be shaped by actual policies and institutions , rather than by decree . the change to the better might emerge only from the practical initiatives , rather than from sunday speeches . he remained skeptical of the notions of irreversible progress . they pushed ahead with the idea of monetary integration that arrived in fruition a generation later .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . whereas the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted could create an impression stemming from the constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize once an era for renegotiating an uk-eu relationship widens again from a new , very soft , april 12 deadline until late last year , or beyond . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , prospects are suddenly far brighter and better than at any time since june 2016 . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
it no longer dreams of being the united states of europe , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” it , and jacques delors ’s suggestion of an all-embracing united states , has remained all too ambivalent , if not unintentionally ambiguous , to be effective . to be sure , the iranians “ “ not ” are not the eu ’s equivalent of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a significant setback and challenge to the institutional , political , and even psychological character of its time . following the iranians “ no ” , ” ” ” ” ” can the union find its salvation in nato ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s last image ?
indeed , terrorism is , and will continue to be one of that era ’s scourges . the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) is not some kind of conventional war , but it does not have to do so . the us can not eradicate or destroy it any time soon , because it is both netanyahu and the idea that it is an organization and the de facto state to check territory and resources . likewise , what is needed , too , is a dose of realism . the good news , though , is that the threat that the islamic state poses to the middle east and the outside world can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action .
failing that , the left will come to power , reversing years of reform and progress . mexico ’s own skillful success in rebuilding opec ( boosting its oil exports ’ value ) has contributed to good performance , as has the determination to hang on to , and even widen , the reforms of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , chairman salinas . but the currency board will also help launch financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms , which have been starved of capital through recurrent crises and bad credit . small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism . mexico ’s economy has now had a good couple of years ; not very difficult , given the booming american next door and great liquidity in global capital markets .
it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful modernization process . it is , in part , self-defense , in part , an assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances , and in part by a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration . fighting al qaeda , therefore , is not a war ; it is a struggle for security . it is thus not a war that is fought by al qaeda . it is , in part , self-defense , in part an assertion of the rule of law in challenging circumstances and in part a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration .
these are the groups that have been criticized by the obama administration and others for its failure to present the united front , to formulate a credible agenda , or they are perceived as a viable alternative to the current regime . groups such as the syrian national council are loose association of individuals and groups , many of them outside syria . but these groups have limited leverage over local opposition groups within syria that are just as varied and divided . they are among those groups that have gained the foothold . fearful of another islamist takeover comes the second key argument against overthrowing assad , but remaining in power , the greater the gains that islamists have made on the ground .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made it possible by capturing the hearts and minds of us regulators , and among politicians on both sides of the aisle , had given a narrow private-sector elite , mostly in the interest of wall street nearly all the upside of the housing boom . these people were not caused by the crisis ; the crisis was not the first place . yet they are being paid to the cost of doing so . the downside was shoved onto the rest of society , especially the relatively uneducated and underserved people who now lost homes , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or all the above . yet this was not the case for over-regulation and over-reaching .
the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has generated large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . the unemployment rate stands at around 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . at the same time , a political crisis impedes the government ’s pursuit of tough reform . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics , by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles over minor controversies . the unemployment rate stands at around 11 % , with the country ’s record-high 3.3 million workers registered in october .
to this end , much remains to be done . mumbai – like india gears up for its general election next month – is not the same thing as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic safety . yet it is past time for india to step up its own aspirations . in 2012 , two decades after its government embarked on a series of economic reforms aimed at opening up its economy , its official poverty rate peaked at 22 % , below half the rate in 1994 . escaping abject destitution , even if an important milestone is not the same thing as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security .
yet , far from making room for us diplomacy , trump ’s adviser , sebastian gorka , recently pointed out that , “ the notion that us secretary of state rex tillerson is about to debate military issues is simply nonsensical . ” likewise , south korea ’s political leaders need to avoid being swept out of this intensifying war rhetoric . once the march toward war began , there has been little room left for us diplomacy . unless that changes any time soon , the us may , as former british prime minister david lloyd lloyd wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle through ] into war ” has yet to change . yet , far from making room for diplomacy , trump ’s adviser , sebastian gorka , recently told the us press that , “ the notion that us secretary of defense rex tillerson is discussing military matters is simply nonsensical . ”
if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushes him into forming yet another political party , ortega ’s chances to win the presidency rise sharply . even so , alemán faces an uprising within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by the former us treasury secretary eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful favorite within the party of the liberal wing party . while a three-way race is pure speculation on this point , it ’s now clear that it provides ortega the best of all electoral worlds . the business interests that finance the political campaign faces a stark dilemma : are it preferable to align himself with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán , or by supporting a new democratic force and risk helping ortega to win ? it is ’s so appealing that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his own political interests .
friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary – that the private economy on its own may well be subject to unbearable instability ­and the need for strategic , powerful , but limited government intervention was necessary to maintain stability . but , while for keynes , the key was to maintain the sum of government expenditure and private investment stable , for friedman the key to keeping the money supply in check -- the quantity of purchasing power in readily spendable form in firms and households alike -- stable . a relatively minor technical difference in means , one might say , one might say . the difference with the view that rested on various judgments about how the world works that might ( and , ultimately , have been ) solved through empirical research , one might say . and you would have been a half or more right , if not more .
the prospect of america ’s monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan towards an enhanced level of monetary stimulus . the euro is down 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of this year , and the yen is down by 14 % . but speculators are thinking ahead , and shifting away from commodities today in anticipation of the future higher us interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been a run-up in next year ’s price decline forward for the us to this day . the result has been an appreciation of the us dollar against the euro and the yen . fourth of its canals , exchange rates have already worked .
this pattern of action and inaction by the council has given more credence to those who believe that the un ’s supreme body of human rights is inherently anti-israel . i am also aware that the un human rights council has made repeated sentences for israel over the last two years , but has focused very little attention on the large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . i am aware that goldstone , a devoted and unimpeachable human-rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he was initially drawing closer attention . but he has been able to work with the council of ’s own president to secure an agreement that he felt confident would permit a mandate to be interpreted in such a manner as a means to enable his team to address the actions of both parties to conflict . i have decided that i can not undertake a mission on these grounds .
during the early cold war , both communism and the soviet union had substantial soft power . although in theory , communism aimed at establishing a " class justice " system , lenin ’s ’s cronies retained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , widespread censorship , and ubiquitous whistle-blowers . during the early cold war , communism and the soviet union had substantial soft power . but soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin ’s crimes in 1956 and , thanks to repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . the net effect of these brutal measures was widespread loss of faith .
but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbesian , locke , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could describe only current mental events and behaviors ; they were unable to account for their causes . in fact , its work has revolutionized the field . prior to the era of darwin , philosophical speculation has been shaped by our psychological understanding . coronado , california – california – – – is not thinking about charles darwin as a psychologist . indeed , its work has revolutionized the field .
as marc kirschner , a professor at the university of harvard medical school , has pointed out in a thoughtful editorial in the journal science : “ one can detect good science as it does , but substantial science can be viewed only in a rear-view mirror . ” indeed , assessing the impact on any research project is difficult to measure . it depicted an older few at a breakfast table , and it is important to believe that we can do so . even preeminent researchers may understate the significance of their findings at the very moment they acquire . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school at the university of 1969 , has pointed out in a thoughtful editorial in the journal science : “ one can recognize good science as it does , ” but substantial science can be viewed only at rear-view mirror .
it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is the key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing nearly all gdp gains over the last quarter-century . the american tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was mistaken to pay a lower marginal tax rate than his treasury secretary . and , with full execution ( in 2027 ) , it will raise taxes for the majority of americans in the us ( second , third , and fourth quintiles ) . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive .
california , the american state with over two million independent contractors , has been trying to settle that question with a new law , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies us legal criteria to determine how to categorize workers . yet ab5 cover the more than 400,000 us workers driving for platform firms like ride-sharing service uber and lyft , as well as a food-service firm doordash . applying a three-part “ abc ” test ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it considerably more difficult for firms to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than workers . a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether the gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors , or as platform employees with which they have a job contract and for whose customers it provides services . to win the political support of the ab5 ’s passage , us lawmakers exempted many kinds of independent contractors , such as physicians , dentists , and real-estate agents – on a finding that they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers – and at least twice the minimum wage .
making matters worse , modi ’s government has , for the first time ever , invoked section 7 of a rbi act , allowing it to issue directions directly to a central banker ’s governor on matters of public interest . the modi government is especially unhappy with the rbi ’s approach to cleaning up india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by an extensive volume of nonperforming assets and preventing risks from building up in other parts of the financial system . such measures are wringing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients . to be sure , government ministers can not emerge right away , saying so that . the government is especially unhappy with the rbi ’s measures to clear india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by an extensive volume of non-performing assets and preventing risk from building up in other parts of the financial system .
to be sure , abe did not confront the type of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did . but , after more than two decades in which leaders – with the likes of junichiro koizumi – have promised little and accomplished less , japanese voters have little reason to expect that abe will follow through on his pledges . nor is abe ’s 2012 campaign lacking ambitions ; he has laid a bold , economic-reform agenda , and pledged to boost japan ’s global influence . as any democratic politician attest , disappointed expectations may well turn out to be everyone ’s harshest electoral opponent . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy .
there are alternative drugs , like prasugrel or ticagrelor , that can be applied instead of plavix to circumvent the problem . in many of these patients , a doubling of plavix , and check the platelet function with an point-of-care test for assure suppression , may override the lack of response . the story of interferon , given that one year to the patients of the hepatitis c virus , is especially striking . those individuals who carry at least one copy of a gene variant that does not permit the body to metabolize the plavix have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent . this genome variation is exceptionally common , present at about 30 % of individuals in europe of ancestry and over 50 % of those in asian ancestry .
after all , war , colombia , and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , whereas peace divides them . west africa , too , would suffer , having become the principal transit sticking to south american drug prices in recent years . the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt well beyond the country ’s borders . if chávez ’s ’s ’s ouster became a narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their underprivileged relations with the farc . repercussions would also have been felt in mexico , where the drug cartels grind up apart the country and america , the world ’s largest source of demand .
the key , though , is that the budget simply does not rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . the second pillar of reducing poverty is targeted investment for the poor , particularly for the rural poor . rapid economic growth requires private-sector investment , including through foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . thus , the budget promotes critical areas of market reform and promotion of growth , including measures aimed at deepening the financial sector , promotion of exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment . at its heart , the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investment directed toward the world ’s poorest .
among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . indeed , an exaggeration to blame the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism , may well play a direct role in russian president vladimir putin ’s cronies . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran . the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . but , even on an international scene , where american treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is probably having a hard time . given trump ’s belief that an international negotiation is just a forum for making unilateral demands , how might mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks the government experience – lacks the government experience of persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms like open trade – is in everyone ’s interest ? after all , the trump administration has made it abundantly clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . domestically , it has become clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . domestically , it has become ensnared between promises that it has been made ( like mnuchin ’s mnuchin rule , which will not be slashed for the wealthy ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the wealthy ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the us administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) .
cambridge – how should one evaluate an agreement reached in paris earlier this month at the un climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the debate erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the deal was not committed firmly to limit global warming to 1.5 º celsius above preindustrial levels by 2050 . but such a commitment would have been no credible at all . no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the debate erupted .
sadly , they were educated in the religious seminaries espousing a profoundly intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , began to shift to ghettos . muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , began to migrate to ghettos . with discrimination soon spilling over into class lines , rising numbers of india ’s muslims began to seek links to muslim communities elsewhere around the world . muslim charitable organizations , often financed by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began moving into areas of social life in which the state ’s failure to dismally , especially to education .
workers do not protest menial jobs in the capitalistic wenzhou but against no jobs in the socialist shenyang region . why most pundits miss out on the protests , not in the zhejiang liberal provinces of guangdong , but on the northeastern state ’s socialist bastions , is a puzzle . workers do not protest with menial jobs in the capitalistic wenzhou era , but against no jobs in the socialist republic of socialist shenyang . with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ a great deal of the proletariat , produce the goods that proletarian consumers demand , and because of their superior performance , safeguard the interests of the proletarian savers by , in fact , paying back their bank loans . nowadays , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than the state-owned enterprises ( soes ) .
but , while we are seeing inequality and exclusion in club-level soccer , the reverse is true for competitions among national teams . the fall in the winning margin is all the more impressive , given that the world cup grew from 16 to 32 national teams , many of which are new and rather inexperienced . the same goes for every game played out in the closing tournament , and not only among those among the top eight national teams . the average winning margin among the top eight world cup national teams has steadily declined , from more than two goals in the 1950 ’s to some 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , the 1970 ’s , and the 1980 ’s , as well as the 0.88 goals of 2002 . poorer or smaller countries may hardly dream of winning the european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , the red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english-speaking third divide ) once did .
with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked rise in long-run growth , as the us administration forecasts , would be historically anomalous . indeed , the us budget presumes the best of all worlds , not the blue chip , in which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along at about 2 % . moreover , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost completely . at present , ten-year us treasuries are offering more than three times as much yield on $ 3 trillion of us treasuries . at present , ten-year us treasuries offer more than three times as much yield on $ 3 trillion .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of policy achieved by berlusconi , as does the institutional feature that he abolished . under new electoral rules , the seats allotted for the parties of the upper house to the votes , but the peculiar induces parties to forge preelectoral agreements : a preelectoral coalition that wins the majority of the votes will receives a seat premium , which ensures the comfortable majority in the deputies chamber ( the lower house ) . that outcome would accelerate if , as is likely , berlusconi himself to distance himself from politics in the upcoming electoral term . one recent act by his administration was to replace the majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 , with proportional rule . a new electoral system changes politicians with incentives and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments .
and it has had some success – to the detriment of economic growth . but there is more to assess wen ’s own stimulus than the fizzle out of the growth/reform trade-off . though the current rate of 7 % is comfortable , it is far lower than the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . that is fine with li , recognizing that the structural transformation and industrial upgrading – not an unsustainable credit-led growth model – is the key to reaching high-income status . and it has had some success – to the detriment of economic growth .
here , public investment institutions , like the european investment bank , can help to adapt in many ways . big , and small , investors alike , should know precisely how their money might be affected by changing the climate . for example , how will urban areas cope with heightened flood risk and how will farmland productively grow as droughts grow more severe ? the climate challenge demands much deeper public-private collaborations to boost green investment . we need to make sure that infrastructure is being built to cope with the increased impact of climate change and to develop clear global standards for de-closing the climate risks that investment projects pose .
they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks , using each form of communication to harass and violate the collective will of free people . the speaker has not been some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri , has not . “ more than half of that struggle takes place on the battlefield of the media , ” [ for ] the us media fight in a race to the hearts and hearts of the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . consider the fact that violent extremists have their own kind of “ media relationships committees ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” aimed at manipulating elite opinion . while terrorists have skillfully adapted to fight wars in today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s media age , they have not .
to be sure , exemplary and punitive damages to discourage behavior inimical to society exist on the statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damaging awards as an instrument of control behavior , particularly among businessmen . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civilian claims of environmental tort and human-rights abuses before american courts prove just how desperate filipino claimants to seek redress against those who have acted negligently or with impunity . simply put , philippine courts have not made it sufficiently expensive to keep non-seaworthy vessels at bay . all of this explains why sulpicio ranks , the owner of the star movement , has remained in business operations , despite its many lapses .
all told , the trump administration ’s ’s ’s disruptive behavior has left both french and german governments furious . but , beyond fueling rage , trump ’s overtures to other countries ’ sovereignty are adding momentum to a new push to european political unification . it is no secret that europe is at the center of the internal economic crisis , the result of europe ’s saddling southern european countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash , which severely diminished their competitiveness as part of the euro system . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the eu ’s pipeline project , an american ambassador to germany has been behaving more like an “ occupation officer ” officer ” ” than like the eu diplomat . america ’s congress is contemplating legislation allowing the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms attending the project , despite the fact that these companies are contractually compelled to see the job through .
but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring the national and eu territory without border controls . all have revoked the controls at their shared borders , and they have adopted a common visa policy for un citizens . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . and it is undoubtedly convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona , without having to wait in line on each fronts crosses . it is certainly handy to treat the flight of zurich from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport controls to contend with departure and arriving .
a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . such collaboration is vital to combat terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . europeans have become dependent on such firms , all of which are based in china or america . yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data-privacy laws – than on advancing a longer-term strategy to become more competitive . defining such a strategy might help europeans identify areas for mutual accommodation .
the federal government , under both president george w. bush and barack obama , has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks while letting hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders go bankrupt . so , too , in america , smaller banks that largely finance small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) have been all but neglected . simply adding liquidity , while continued current austerity policies , wo n’t reignite the spanish economy . so , too , in america , smaller banks that largely finance small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) have been all but neglected . but lending would have been inhibited even if the banks are healthier .
arab oil-exporting countries embargoed their oil sales to the u.s. and netherlands in order to sanction them in exchange for their support for israel . when the dust settled , an american , dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same level of shortcoming , paying an equally damaging high price . the world learned that the lesson came after the 1973 arab-israel war . oil is fungible commodity , with markets bright at a shared price . but the oil destined for the u.s. and netherlands has been moved into other countries such as japan , with oil destined to find its way to the u.s. and the netherlands .
but the bullets and clubs unleashed by buddhist monks have been working . the world has been horrified by graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown on the country ’s military junta . the monks have retreated , and eerie normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city , and its former capital city . as the sun sets out in myanmar , fear is rising . that crackdown continues , under the cover of darkness .
germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that these sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . the underlying issue is whether europe ’s ’s monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions on those who violated it . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the us government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its inclination to succumb to populist demands , and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . nor , of course , was it ever envisaged that greece will confront its current bout of economic trauma . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance after the oil-price shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by sluggish growth and high inflation and unemployment , enormous fiscal deficits , rising debt , a collapsing currency , and inadequate infrastructure .
once again , it would have been ludicrously expensive – or simply impossible – to achieve similar capabilities in earlier periods in history . at the end of the roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat may have bought a nomclator – a slave tasked with memorizing names and faces – and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demand it . in thinking of the growth future , and the opportunities that continued growth will open up for all humankind , we should reflect on how far we have arrived . nowadays , having a rudimentary smartphone is preferable to having the entourage of a dozen , or even thousands , of nomenclator-like aides . these include flush toilets , automobiles , electrical power , long-distance communication , advanced information processing , and so forth .
this may sound straightforward , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century , the international order . insofar as this is true , the united states will not be replaced as the dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role . the vital interests of a guiding chinese foreign policy are internal modernization ; the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival ; and the country ’s unity ( comprising taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for the long term . as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , one that – precisely for that reason – pursues its foreign-policy interests entirely unsentimental .
the global financial crisis , which followed east asian crises , laid out a series of large exchange-rate adjustments . wages and prices plummeted , but insufficient to enable argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of the agricultural goods that constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantage face high hurdles in entering advanced-country markets . the government pursued fiscal austerity , but insufficient to make up for the vagaries of the us market . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – some argue that it had become grossly underrated . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , soared sharply in value .
making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction started in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-too buying restrictions while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more inventories . yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lessons of either episode . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction started in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying constraints while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more inventories . it is far more difficult to detect circuit breakers for this dynamic than it is , say , that caused by the financial sector ’s balance-sheet distress . not only did they fail to mitigate risk , underscored in the 2007 meltdown that new retail investors introduce into the market ; they did indeed exacerbate them , by enabling , and even encouraging , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases .
faced with this uncertainty , they are not readjust their spending cuts ; instead , they refrain from spending cuts until the mists obvious to send the economy into a tailspin . it is a shock , not adjustment , that spreads across the system . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . but i doubt that it has . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . faced with this uncertainty , they are not readjust their spending ; instead , they refrain from spending until the mists clear , send the economy into a tailspin .
over the longer term , a majority of economists agree that governments , particularly in advanced industrial countries with an aging population , should worry about the sustainability of their policies . the financial sector imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society . taxes on speculative activity might encourage banks to shift more attention to performing their core societal role in lending . moreover , well-designed financial-sector taxes might help alleviate the problems created by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . america ’s financial industry is polluted with toxic mortgages and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , should impose taxes .
attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad and peres are likely to precipitate such a change . so , while those things are happening in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as carefully as they do to those of bernanke in an attempt to understand the course of the world ’s stock markets . economists may not like to focus on thinking about public thinking and how it interacts with price shifts , world news stories , and even more speculative dynamics . but the public reaction to them , combined with the recent oil-price spike , may well account for the good measure of changing market psychology . after all , doing so implies that economic events are much less predictable ( and economists are less omniscient ) than imagine .
new york – a decade ago , the asian financial crisis brought the banks , corporations , and governments to its knees . contagion soon spread throughout east asia , with the ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil did . yet , for most asians , an economic armageddon is far more recent . the asian financial crisis of ten years ago brought the banks , corporations , and governments to its knees . the asian financial crisis of ten years ago brought banks , corporations , and governments to their knees .
and , to know that one needs to be just as well to see what one does not know as much about what one does . the knowledge that comes from this kind of self-examination is crucial in any decision . of course , plato ’s purpose in a dialogue is not to define piety : if socrates knows of a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by the euthyphro , he does not reveal it . rather , plato ’s point is to demonstrate that the euthyphro is ignorant of its own ignorance about piety , and that euthyphro thus can not really know that prosecuting his father is actually just the point that he will do . one ought to recognize the moral character of any action one is contemplating .
one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water and more than two billion people worldwide , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . moreover , water scarcity also means food scarcity . after all , the agriculture sector accounts for about 70 % of the global freshwater supply ; with short supply water , it means that farmers are much less able to feed the world ’s ’s ’s ’s population . in north african countries , encroaching on the desert has displaced many people , exacerbating tensions between farmers and herders . this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of hectares of farmland and causing power shortages .
recognizing that this imperative is only the first step . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and the encouragement of r & d have enabled the brazilian agriculture organization to pioneer more than 9,000 tech projects , including by designing the tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth , driven by the massive youth army , is ending . efficiency soared , placing brazil ’s crop yields on par with those in advanced economies . emerging economies need to confront the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping policy changes , incentives , and establishing practices to boost productivity .
second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members deliver policies to strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . since the g20 ’s cannes meeting last november last november , for example , europe has ramped up its fiscal firewalls with € 200 trillion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greece ’s debts , undertaken steps to strengthen its banks and banking regulations , establish rules for fiscal discipline , and implement a host of labor – and product-market reforms . yet the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies a pressing need for far more decisive reform . we are confident that europe will come together to realize these challenges and continue to encourage such efforts , as the case for europe ’s stability and growth pact for us all . second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members deliver policies on strong , sustainable , and balanced growth .
they need to work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized lest they end up doing anything less than number . refusing to prioritize , dealing primarily with the most publicized problems , is misguided . but not talking about priorities makes the necessity of getting away . instead , choices become only less clear-cut , less democratic , and less efficient . whenever one prioritize , it says not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not step up our efforts ( which are viewed as being cynical ) .
this is true in most countries , including in the americas , where inequality is among the highest in the world , though a few countries , like norway , where the people have a more realistic view . correcting these misperceptions will transform people into thinking about redistributive policies . the bottom line is not lost in endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but rather to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have meaningful debates about inequality based on concrete figures with the goal of setting out a clear goal . as it stands , surveys indicate that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it really is , but still exceeding the levels that they would consider the ideal . if the right targets are to be chosen , debates must be better informed .
putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but , for china it has been the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable . third , obama should emphasize the chinese stake in eurasian stability . those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy , which is what has been the soviet union . likewise , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank or corporation access to america ’s financial system would generate the type of economic turmoil last seen in russia immediately following the collapse of communism . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin , – whose primary assertion of leadership – is that he ended the penury of the early post-soviet years – will cost them dearly .
for the past two years , matters have been very different . the city of london , lower manhattan , and several other centers have become the money machine , which has been making investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private-equity folk immoderately wealthy individuals . many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some have gone out of business completely out of business . against this backdrop , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector has skyrocketed . university leaders like me have spent a lot of time persuading them to recycle greece out of business altogether .
in a february meeting , america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart on reports that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if the kyrgyz shut down an american base . indeed , the us policy emboldened pro-russian politicians who would love no more than to see an american kicked out of kyrgyzstan . both diplomats were conversing with russia as a matter of course . “ visibly flustered ” ( the chinese ambassador ’s administration ) temporarily lost its power to speaking up russians and started spluttering in the chinese to a tacit aide diligently assumes the right behind him , ” ” ” according to the confidential american diplomatic cable gathered by web site wikileaks.org . both diplomats were conversing out in russia .
but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever supposed to envisage . it is past time that france begins questioning its own economic model . in a recent speech on its burning suburbs , chirac proclaimed : no matter what we will need to draw all of the lessons from this crisis when the time comes and order has recovered , and with plenty of courage and lucidity ” ” ” ” ” in a recent speech on burning suburbs , chirac declared , “ do we need to draw all of the lessons from this crisis when the time comes and order has recovered , and with plenty of courage and lucidity . ” moreover , social assistance with little hope for individual upgrading is not good enough . but , ultimately , perhaps the best way to address them , and to avoid a resurgence of them , is to ensure that economic opportunities are available for those determined to try .
we also have learned from the hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry merely fuels rage . we can not , and will not , allow this in our own countries . we entrust them with guiding our country toward the new levels of growth and development , which are why we have now nominated the cabinet minister of its age and created a special youth council . we are also aware of the hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry merely fuels rage fires . we entrust with guiding our countries toward the new levels of growth and development that are now nominated by the cabinet minister of its age , and formed a special youth council .
we know that extraordinarily low levels of real interest rates produce massive credit expansions . how will one tighten fiscal policy of more than 100 % of gdp in a mere three years , just as it did in ireland between 2004 and 2007 , and in a state of democracy a fiscal surplus , as ireland ? to ask policymakers in a democracy with large surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or public investment by the very large magnitude necessary to stave off catastrophe strikes is to go beyond the touch of reality . to stem this credit-induced flood of demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible and absurd to try . in countries with higher rates of price growth than in germany , but with similarly high borrowing costs , this can not generate anything but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates .
today , however , france and germany are less unified on a shared european strategy , and their commitment to european integration looks less robust . in the past , undoubtedly , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor helmut kohl ) would together periodically push the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . but the bottom line is that the constitutional amendment can be undertaken only by a unanimous agreement , with a few member governments starting with the uk to oppose any overtly federalist agenda . the problem is that this evasion conspiracy may not work , and fischer ’s significance is that he is the first us government minister in office to say so in public , even though he pretends to say this in personal capacity . as a result , the french government is reluctant to push a confrontation with the bri if there is any chance of a softer compromise in the future .
enthusiasts describe it as the new brand of modern industrial policies , which can help push brazil beyond its conventional role as an commodity exporter . but rodrik and hausmann are also showing that getting such policies right implies exacting imperatives . enthusiasts describe this as the new brand of modern industrial policies , which can help push brazil beyond its conventional role as an commodity exporter . in my opinion , an intellectual case for activist policies – such as that produced , say , dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is powerful . the critics call this a mistaken effort , which produces only greater distortions and retard growth .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , much less populism more broadly . but the evolutionary psychology that stresses competition for females may add another dimension of our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife may erupt . those among native-born populations with the lowest levels of income and educational attainment levels are likely to add another dimension of our understanding of those phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife may erupt . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances in specific places . but , though the problem may not be “ finessed , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” evolutionary psychology , which stresses competitive competition for females , may add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us predict when and where civil strife may erupt .
but the similarities are striking , with the prognosis for all the more compelling as the world ’s two largest economies sink into a perilous quagmire . whereas i published a 2014 book on the inter-continental us-china economic relationship , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalization of insights from human psychology to assess the behavior of national economies . judging by the ongoing escalation of the trade war between the united states and the us-china trade war , the same is true of an economic relationship . in its most fundamental terms , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of the relationship ’s relationship dynamics – when two partners draw more from one another than from their own internal strength . new haven , codependency , never ends well into face-to-face relationships .
european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and america ’s materialism - these are both ancient and tired themes . this is the point at which many start using the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed on the other hand , to america -- europe as an anti-america . comparing and contrasting the two sides in the atlantic has long pedigree . throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union delivered the raison d’être of europe ; in an era of globalization , it is america . but how , then , is this identity to be defined ?
in both episodes , america has been in denial , bordering on delusion . sadly , lighthizer seems as clueless about the macro argument today as it back then . without raising national saving – which is very unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other trading partners . without raising national saving – which is very unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other trading partners . sadly , lighthizer seems as clueless about the macro argument today as it back then .
while the un security council has been outdated in its structure , it still plays a critical legitimizing role ; and france , rather than germany , is an eu member . finally , along with the united kingdom among european countries , france maintains more global roles than germany has yet to gain . the french center-left must take the lead in conceiving a vision of a europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce its long-term economic vigor . hollande ’s government and premier , jean-marc ayrault , have powerful majorities at all levels of the executive and legislative level , giving it a rare opportunity to act . if it can renew the “ european model ” at home , it could project that success far more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in turn reinforcing trust and eu faith , particularly among its young generation .
a third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be to bolster regional arab solidarity . but the 2011 revolutions demonstrated a profound sense of identity , shared language , and much shared history bind the arabs together , despite vast differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . deep reforms , centered on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas – – are necessary to transform the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a young labor force demands . many outsiders underestimate , or purposefully , the “ arabness ” ” ” of the arab world . how else can one explain the act of rebellion in tunisia , which has resulted in popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ?
attitudes about male caregiving are starting to shift in america . who has a boss or company that is better off supporting reconciling work and family responsibilities ? just one-third of millennial men believe in traditional gender roles . america ’s largest tech firms are starting to compete for talent by offering a paternity left . who has a more flexible job ?
but it also depends on the government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function for the shortfall of aggregate demand and pursue the reforms and investments that boost longer-term growth prospects . when public-sector deleveraging is not an absolute growth policy – and it is not at all – why is there so much attention devoted to fiscal austerity and so little action ( as against lip service to lip service to growth and employment ) ? a few possibilities , – not mutually exclusive – are coming around . a few possibilities , not mutually exclusive , are coming around . muted wage growth boosts competitiveness and is being re-deployed .
it is wrong to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of any kind of social protection makes you more powerful . journalists report the tragic stories of middle-class americans losing their jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk with no social protection . on the other hand , when many individual americans ’ personal situations are scrutinized by the european sights , the extremes of individualism , which represent a key component of american optimism , translates into an unacceptable social scandal . “ who will pay for your expensive cancer treatment ” if you lose the health-insurance policy that comes with your job ? “ journalists ” report the tragic narratives of middle-class americans losing out in jobs and homes , potentially placing their lives at risk without any social protection .
warsaw : more recently , poland experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . because of their domination in parliament , the postcommunists ' intransigence on that point forced the other political parties that participated in drafting poland 's new constitution to kowtow to their position . it focused on whether a " free " education should be made a constitutional right . freedom , or , as its postcommunist advocates prefer to be called , " a " not to pay for " an education , " means education in state-owned schools and university universities ( but not in private schools ) . only by raising the issue to the level of the constitutional right , say the postcommunists , can the guarantees for a free , equal approach to education .
at the same time , the private sector has a role to play in driving the shift toward unconventional water resources – a role that needs to expand beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . at the same time , the private sector has a role to play in driving the shift toward unconventional water resources – a role that must expand beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . the sustainable development goal of six calls for universal access to clean drinking water and sanitation , and we need to focus on the right to thrive . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities need to be mobilized in a way that – for example , through public campaigns – harnessing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water sources . best practices should be made clear , with innovations identified and tested , with knowledge and experience shared .
american negotiators are fixated on targeted cuts of about $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year-timeframe . given the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , that is largely an insignificant objective , particularly given the massive and ill-timed us tax cuts and federal spending increases that the us has enacted over the past six months . as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal to the us . as a result , targeting china also has enormous political appeal to the us . given the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , that is largely an inconsequential objective , particularly given the massive and ill-timed us tax cuts and federal spending increases that america has enacted over the past six months .
economic relations with the west would not be diluted by that shift . asia needs a strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth that implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to overemphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional , “ south-south ” demand . the unprecedented economic expansion , which lifted millions out of poverty , has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as has severe environmental damage . in short , the key challenges facing asia today is to sustain economic growth – at a lower level , but still enviable , rate , and better quality . as a result , asia now has two faces : the prosperous and growing middle class , and those in the region still enjoy rapid economic development , and whose health and well-being are being adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution .
berkeley – the central insight of macroeconomics comes from the fact that john stuart mill was known in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a huge gap between supply and demand for fairly much of all currently produced goods and services , and the types of labor if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets . because industries suffer from under-demand shed workers , industries are benefiting from excess demand that are hire them . the economy is rapidly rebalances on its own , and therefore returns to full employment , and it is doing so with the configuration of jobs and production that are better adapted to current consumer preferences . a normal gap between the supply side and the demand of a certain subset of currently produced commodities is not a serious problem , because it balances excess demand for the rest of the world today with commodities . and this fundamental reality is , in fact , a source of huge hardship .
russian liberals were initially welcomed the budanov case , as a sign that the country may address accusations that war crimes are being perpetrated in chechnya . outraged , defense secretary sergei ivanov sacked a prosecutor who appeared ready to absolve a acquit of an “ hero ” on all the outstanding charges . yet , last month , the military prosecutor accepted colonel budanov ’s argument that he was temporarily mad when he killed a girl , and so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . the prosecution then started to speak of a young girls like the chechen sniper , snipers ’ family . ( a rape charge , for some ambiguous reason , has already been dropped . )
the good news is that the incoming administration can draw on the measures that had been formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congress party , which has characterized most of obama ’s eight years in office . the plan needs to recognize that during this protracted period of monetary expansion , the two financial markets and resource-allocation sectors have been distorted , worsening wealth inequality . such measures address imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation . but , of course , america does not exist in any vacuum . as soon as the team stays , its members will need to figure out how to force trump to work for an economy that has – rather than choice – been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies .
washington , dc – just over a hundred years ago , the united states ran the world in terms of rethinking how big business operates , and when the power of such firms should be constrained . the dodd-frank financial reform bill , on the verge of passing through the u.s. senate , does something similar – and long overdue – for the banking sector . most people saw the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer jobs , big firms as stabilizing development , which rewarded success and enabled additional productive investment . prior to the 1890 ’s , large enterprises were widely viewed as more efficient and broadly modern than small firms . in retrospect , breakthrough legislation – and not only for the u.s. , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 .
according to a recent feature in the guardian , a white house team of staffers would select ten letters each day to pass on to a president who would then react to them personally that evening . no , i mean the old-fashioned “ dear donald ” team , or even dear hillary clinton ’s letter . i do n’t mean your email or text message ; nor would i count a dictated message to a machine or a personal assistant . according to a recent feature in the house of representatives in the house of representatives , a white house team of staffers would select ten letters each week , when it served as president of the united states . tokyo – when was the last time you sat down and written a letter ?
today , this pseudo-marxist theory of economic determinism has been refuted one day and again for all of them . the economic determinists had predicted that they did not stand a chance at all . but , ultimately , they would have done precisely what they did in each of the previous four elections in each of the previous four elections – a vote for the party that proclaimed “ every human for himself ” – “ every person . ” the economic determinists had predicted that they did not stand a chance , and that they did not . they may have said the pollsters that they had been ready to pay higher taxes for improved public services and more compassionate attitudes toward the poor .
on the other hand , american foreign-policy formation has been extremely constrained by institutions such as congress , courts , and the us constitution . but even the american constitution is unambiguous about the powers of congress and a president in foreign policy . the transformational goals and the inspirational style of a leader like that of mahatma gandhi in india , or of nelson mandela in south africa , can significantly influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in the developing world , with weakly structured institutional constraints . transactional leadership is more efficient in a stable , predictable setting , whereas an inspirational style is more likely to emerge in periods of rapid , discontinuous and social and political change . thus , we would also expect less opportunity for transformational leadership .
but , if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + to replace it with a mechanism that address underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation . redd + was created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the paris agreement that meets its implementation is expected to be finalized during the united nations climate change conference in paris this december . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , with the latest international push to suspend it – an initiative known as the reduction in emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looking no more likely . far from protecting the world as a whole , the most notable result in these two agreements has been , ironically , manufacturing of expensive consultancy reports . redd + was conceived as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and an agreement that is changing its implementation is expected to be finalized during the un climate-change conference in paris .
it could also destabilize the fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . cutting aid could have calamitous humanitarian repercussions for a nation of more than 80 million people . britain and some other european governments have responded to a post-election crackdown by temporarily withholding aid . donald payne , the leading american house of representatives ’ member of the organization for foreign affairs , and roh gomes , a member of the european parliament of portugal , and head of the eu on the observation team in the 2005 elections , have sought to tie un humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct of press freedom and other human rights . ethiopia , however , poses a dilemma for anyone interested in human rights and democracy .
such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem more effectively the degradation of people ’s productivity and autonomy , by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearings and vision . keeping people working longer lives is critical to keeping them healthy . to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts toward conditions that are prevalent among the elderly , including chronic diseases like diabetes , cardiac disease , zhlaucoma , rheumatoumatoid arthritis , and cancer . old age need to be viewed not simply as an inevitable stage of life , but rather as opportunities for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive . that is why the health-care industry needs to play a significant role in its efforts to address populations ’ aging challenges .
the initiative brings together private , public , and philanthropic funding facilities to maximize environmental and social benefits . the other large transition-financing opportunity is in blended finance or collaborative schemes , which raise private capital for public goods . such initiatives are bringing together a broad spectrum of public - and private-sector stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to fund deep environmental and social projects . moreover , the sdg approach is helping to scale up and de-risk projects , and to optimize its funding . the tropical landscapes finance facility – developed in indonesia in collaboration with the un environment program – is a good example .
but even better-performing ones – like brazil , russia , india , and china – are now at risk of a hard landing . emerging markets were initially tied to this distress only when foreign investors started withdrawing their money . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , were the most fragile . many emerging markets now seem to be at risk of another round of financial crisis . then the panic spilled over into credit markets , money markets , and currency markets highlighting the vulnerability of many developing countries ’ financial systems and corporate sectors , which experienced credit booms and borrowed short and in foreign currencies .
nearly three years ago , british voters had no real idea about what they did when they made the decision by a narrow majority to leave the eu . but interventions by bercow and eu interventions have opened up the entire new game , dramatically raising the chance that brexit may not happen . almost three years ago , british voters did not actually know what they did when they made the decision by a narrow majority to leave the eu . that would have the foil of financial-market speculators , who have been betting on withdrawal , and it is good news for both the uk and the eu alike . until recently , a reversal of british exit from the eu seemed unlikely .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders laid the country on a path of reform that produced the most dramatic economic transformation in its history . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an just momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state control was relaxed . mao zedong came to death two years earlier , in 1976 , and the newly-rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping his vision of economic development and upgrading on the third plenum of the eleventh-central committee , held in december 1978 .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american unilateralism , the threat of yet another military confrontation hangs like the dark cloud over the middle east . the result has been some startling , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and pakistan , shia-dominated iraq , the shia-dominated iraq are confronting israel , saudi arabia , and much of the other sunni arab states – all of which feel an existentially threatened by iran last year ’s ascendance . iran might never have accomplished this on its own , certainly not in so short a time . jerusalem – in the wake of its misguided american policy – the threat of yet another military confrontation hangs like the murky cloud over the middle east . the hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open-ended struggle for predominance in the middle east .
during the postcommunist social revolution ( less often noted than not so much political and economic upheavals ) families and communities were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church had too engaged in politics to help . people were left to be left to resist gales of change on their own terms . fascination with liberal liberty arrived in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment in history . during the postcommunist social revolutions ( less often noted than political and economic upheavals ) families and communities undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church had too engaged in politics to help . to be free but alone can not be easy , especially given that dependency habits are ingrained .
extending the eu to areas of liberty and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity , particularly in south-east europe , is in everyone ’s interest in any european citizen . likewise , the crisis must not become an excuse for creating new institutional formats , which endanger the delicate balances among diverse eu institutions , the balance that , through appropriate adjustments , was proven through the trials of the eu . to be sure , crises highlight the imperative of strengthening the eu ’s institutions and instruments for collective action and coordination . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse for calling into question the need for a continuing and comprehensive process of eu enlargement . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse for calling into question the need to continue and fine-tune the process of eu enlargement .
powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by prominent upa supporters , have supposedly driven the government to correct extravagant pricing and write off the sugar poor , leading to over-production . in place of eliminating that system , as was expected , modi ’s predecessor , augmented by sugar subsidies to encourage higher output , raised import tariffs on sugar in order to discourage foreign competition , and raised the sugar-based ethanol needed to blend gasoline . this goal explains another political reversal , just as it does . a widely cited example of the outgoing administration ’s alleged economic mismanagement has been its sugar-pricing power . its motivation is not hard to recognize : its bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) is hoping that such concessions can help wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s major sugar-producing state , from upa in the forthcoming state assembly election .
the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood up as the twin pillars of germany ’s policies since the end of world war ii . the party captured a mere 9.7 % of the popular vote in the regional elections of bavaria this month , flailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in the national opinion polls . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german-bloc politics since the end of world war ii . with the spd falling , however , germany is shifting from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system , in which no single party plays the dominant role . with another important regional elections fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will lose even more support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria .
whereas russia alone will not freeze its accounts , president putin ’s meaning became obvious : it would have been better for all parties if that money is brought home and invested in the national economy . most important , if the us government were to reverse capital flight , then the us government would have to persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and cut back on demand . russia ’s people need to be convinced of the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , no one suggests nationalization -- as occurred repeatedly during the eight months of which i was prime minister . to achieve that end , russia needs to create a secure and attractive investment climate . how , then , can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment as long as ordinary russians maintain their savings rate of $ 50 billion , according to most estimates , at home ?
without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 , never before would have been possible . opening up hungary ’s borders , which fall , and seeking refuge by east germans in prague ’s german embassies and warsaw , had already shaken the communist and stasi rule on its foundations . their commitment to the injustices of the communist regime is to me one of the best chapters in germany ’s history . without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events throughout europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible . they realized that east germany ’s realities were not fixed in stone after all ; that any change was possible , which many courageous dissidents and civil-rights proponents trapped behind the wall demanded for so long .
responsibility-sharing , the foundation for the modern international system to protect refugees , is being replaced with responsibility-shifting countries , usually to the least-developed countries . what is needed is a comprehensive global reach strategy , one that reflects a sweeping vision that both inspires and engages governments , aid communities , business , development institutions , civil-society groups , faith groups , academia , sports , and education . and yet , when they arrived at the wealthy world on their doorstep , the welcome they are increasingly mixed , because the manufactured panic over supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes the space for a humane , pragmatic response . it is time to revisit the global effort to protect refugees . as a result , some – though relatively speaking , rather than many – undertake long , and often perilous journeys toward the developed world .
munich – the euro crisis has passed through six phases so far . the seventh stage of the crisis has been one of heightened moral hazard , stemming from the run-up to debt . nowadays , markets remain calm , but this is only just the start of the seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe becomes mired in debt . the sequence so far has been as follows , first and foremost , by the end of this century . it is noteworthy , because it shows how policymakers are stumbled along trying to set off fires without keeping an eye on where their chosen path ran .
over the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , underscoring the chance of negative shifts in all the same locations where boomsters accentuated positive , plus a few more ( i still await the imminent disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , belgium , and sudan ) . second , once skeptics have warned , over-claimers rarely pay penalties for being wrong . between 1985 and 2005 , the boomsters made ten projections that exaggerated the chance of large positive shifts in both financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of $ 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as the tranquility of the middle east and the dynamic in sub-saharan africa ) . they assigned the probabilities of about 65 % to the bleak scenarios that have materialized just 12 % . they have assigned the probabilities of about 65 % on average to the bleak scenarios that have materialized just 12 % .
it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member , or simply at the wto . britain would have to negotiate access to the european single market to its service industries , whereas eu producers would automatically enjoy virtually unlimited privileges to sell whatever they wish in britain under the global world trade organization rules . brexit ’s economic challenges would have been overwhelming , as well as those of the eu . margaret thatcher was the first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services – not just finance , but also the rule of law , accountancy , and media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and the like – makes eu membership critical to the eu ’s single market . margaret thatcher ’s main economic argument is that britain ’s huge trade deficit is a covert weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from a breakdown in its trade relationship with the eu is flatly wrong .
in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have encouraged their followers to appropriate positions in the bureaucracy and the army . answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates the proper relationship between politics and religion . in fact , the turkish military , with its support from the judiciary , explicitly intervened in the civilian government of the 1960 ’s , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in its name to protect secularism . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system , with its secular kemalist elites , attempted to harness the power of the army and the bureaucracy to check an elected government . for that , understanding the historic context of the current crisis is crucial .
berlin – during the long night of the negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union ’s cracked down . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) , as well as the dire consequences that follow for greece and the monetary union . ever since , europeans have been living in a very different type of eu leadership ever since . what changed that night was germany that the europeans had known since the end of world war ii . at an even deeper level , however , what was at stake was the role of europe of its most populous and economically powerful country .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises grave concerns , not least because the arab military ’s history – unlike those conducted by the west in places such as bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . by the end of 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser had dispatched 70,000 troops in yemen to prop up a republican coup against the royalist forces . such interventions were usually intended to empowering a proxy political force over its military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian catastrophe , or institutionalizing a nonviolent conflict-resolution mechanism following the war . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . despite its use of prohibited chemical weapons against the yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 , the first in intra-arab conflict has failed to accomplish its goals .
unfortunately , however , that norm will apply only to very large multinational corporations , and reports are not publicly available , detaining civil society of an essential transparency tool . for example , it started sharing among the country-by-country tax authorities reports on these firms ’ profits and tax payments . the reform process was led by oecd countries , opening up to the developing world only after this initial package was unveiled . today , there are 125 countries that are involved , forming a group known as an “ inclusive framework . ” the reform process was led by oecd countries , opening up to developing countries only after this starting package was unveiled .
lowering the tax preferences of non-corporate business entities ( such as partnerships ) that transfer their income through their owners ’ individual returns would also broaden the tax base . likewise , while constraining net interest deductibility for corporations , as many other advanced countries have done , would expand the tax base and discourage over-dependence on debt finance , raising the tax burden on major investments in the physical capital that are often debt-financed . several of these entities are very large and cost-effective , enjoying the same legal benefits that corporations enjoy . pass-through firms now account for over 80 % of net business income ( by far the top 1 % in the advanced countries ) . likewise , while constraining net interest deductibility for corporations , as many other advanced countries have done , would expand the tax base and discourage over-dependence on debt finance , raising the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . at the same time , however , israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of its sovereignty , and will continue to govern the existing arrangements that cover the vast majority of its security and civilian governance . israel ’s disengagement marshall plan presents the evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . that means continued entry of the israeli military into gaza at will and maintains control over borders crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the land strip along the palestinian-egyptian border .
almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in the united states peaked at about 53 % of total employment . almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in the americas peaked at about 53 % of total employment . in others , like greece , italy , hungary , estonia , the philippines , the philippines , and sri lanka , the decline has surpassed 10 % . in some cases , such as portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the combined share of agricultural employment has declined to more than 20 % . today , it is just under 3 % of the oecd .
islamabad -- as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hoping that the vote will usher in an era of stability and calm by lending its popular legitimacy . yet , at times , democracy is best served by refusing to take part . indeed , my own party ’s support has been on the rise , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second favorite in the frontier province , gaining ground in each other province . to be sure , contesting the election would provide a huge opportunity for my own party to take issues to the people . to be sure , the upcoming elections will provide a huge opportunity for my own party to take issues for the people .
just as much as bernanke and others wish otherwise – and just as bickering politicians seek to spin policy responsibilities on others – central banks lack the correct tools to deal with the component of an unemployment crisis that results from under-investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . yet , sadly , that shift will not solve the problem that eats away at the social fabric of any society . the best that central banks can do is to purchase time , if at an increasing cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together . likewise , they can not correct debt overhangs , repair broke home finance , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges . and it is a good thing that the official sector pays more attention to joblessness – a very good thing .
indeed , china ’s ’s 13th five-year plan , released earlier this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects at the plateau . moreover , china recently cut off the flow of the brahmaputra river tributary , the lifeline of bangladesh , and northern india to construct a dam as a component of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new center of china ’s maritime silk road . much of china ’s internationally shared internationally shared water resources are located in the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . indeed , china recently cut off the flow of the brahmaputra river tributary , a lifeline in bangladesh , and northern india to construct a dam as a component of a major hydroelectric project in tibet .
washington , dc – ten years after the failures of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was critical to preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse today than it was before the great depression . back then , it was the global financial system that was tottering . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations in the aftermath of world war ii . today , it is the global trading system that is in trouble . over the last 70 years , multilateralism served the world well .
but this was not the farfetched transformation in a city where people had been assuming new identities – like nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist – downplayed their regional and tribal origins . schools were multiplying as attendance surged , and , as a result , the numbers had risen , too . they were not pleased with the fact that their older sons had become communists , vigorously opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s father . this was certainly true of my parents , who had sacrificed much to raise the next nine children . other public services were also improving , and parents believed that their children would lead a more prosperous life than they and earlier generations had .
but the fairness of distributing health-care services across native and migrant populations is often just a thorny issue . the gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and quality health-care subsidies . and now , policymakers must devote more of their attention to the health-care workforce alone , by ensuring that it is adequately trained and training to challenges that await the region . this results in high turnover , owing to over-the-counter , and the increased need for foreign-born health-care workers to fill the sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and quality health-care subsidies .
the defining moment came when de gaulle , in a military uniform , traveled on tv to demonize his mastery of the new middle . if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france , which collapses . ” insisting that self-determination was the only way forward , he challenged the army to reject an even passive association with an insurrection , and to mandate it to reassert the public order . “ well , france and the old country again faces a heavy test , ” he told me . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , calling on the army to reject an even passive association with an insurrection , and instructed itself to reestablish the public order .
iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study at asian universities , where they will discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about the future − which may very well cause them to reflect on why young iranians are not sharing that optimism . what we do know with certainty is that the regime itself is divided . just when the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad is merely an instrument of supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad has appointed vice president mike khamenei to challenge khamenei ’s wishes ( though he subsequently reversed the appointment ) . so , all means should be found to reach out to iranian society at all levels . those divisions within the eu will enable the new forces to emerge from iranian society .
common funding , with all members paying a share on their gdp , is one tool that can be used to generate more equitable burden-sharing . during the last few years , nato ’s financing policy has been updated to allow for common financing to be used as an incentive to provide particular theater-level potential capabilities , such as medical facilities , airports handling soldiers and supply facilities , or intelligence services . how , then , can one evaluate the contribution of light infantry against providing critical enablers like helicopters and air-to-air refueling tankers ? traditionally , nato has applied a policy of costing lie where it falls ” : each member picked up all of the costs of the operational contribution it makes to an alliance operation . over what time period does you make your computation ?
owing to these conditions , continued insistence on monetary easing seems especially ill advised . with so many potential perils on the horizon , central bankers should consider rethinking the fundamental premise underlying their policies . aggregate demand , meanwhile , has been constrained by debt headwinds , yet another result of easy monetary conditions . with so many potential perils looming over the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental premise underlying their policies . moreover , one might argue that the easy money on its own has given rise to an unexpectedly robust disinflationary forces seen in recent years .
ever since the terrorist attacks of new york and washington over the past year , the regime — once central to america ’s strategic interests in the region -- has been made to feel dispensable by an america that drops powerful hints that there are alternatives to the saudi military base , even to saudi oil . although the saudis have not been included in president bush ’s ’s “ axis of evil ” axis , ” ” ” ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as a “ kernel of evil ” ” ” ” of evil ” ” . so , among the wrong sets of possibilities , the least bad seems to be cooperating with america . al-qaeda ’s terrorist networks are perceived as arising directly from the fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines , which represent an integral component of the saudi regime . yet cooperating with the u.s. may not gain the al-sauds much , because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point .
others disagree , arguing that minds can protect themselves by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it harder for victims to remember their most quixotic experiences until it is safe to do so for many years to come . but these clinical trauma theorists do not argue that “ repressed ” ” or dissociating themselves from memories of horrific events are either inert or benign . many clinical trauma theorists seem to believe that combat , rape , and other terrifying experiences supposedly engraved on the mind , never seem to be forgotten . while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable in the us , these kinds of clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as the “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large relative minority of their victims unable to recall the trauma , precisely because it has been so overwhelmingly terrifying .
like a baby , mastering elé belé ’s cruelest art was important . in calcutta , with some younger kid coming along and insisted on joining the games of their friends , we would let a new kid in , but only after the whispers of each other ’s ears , elé belé . an elé belé is a player who thinks that he is participating , but , in truth , merely going through motions . when a new kid had arrived , accompanied by a doting mother , one could convey another , with just plain sight that kid would be elé belé . everybody knew that the goal scored by him was no actual goal .
yet , while the zero lower bound no longer appears to be the binding constraint , there are potential grounds for concern , one concerning debt levels . for example , northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued that america ’s economy is bound to slow down because today ’s technological innovations will not boost growth to the degree that it has in the past . the financial times stock exchange ’s all-world index has risen by almost 22 % in 2017 , with its best performing performance since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 . as the growth pessimism of the past few years fades , some warnings that have been made over the last few years seem to have become obsolete . harvard ’s lawrence summers has argued , for example , that america ’s economy is bound to slow down , because today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s technological innovations will not boost growth to the degree that it has had in the past .
but even the joint expert-level mechanism established in 2007 merely for “ interaction and cooperation ” on hydrological data , which has shown little merit . indeed , china has damming most of the international rivers that are pouring out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already under threat to global warming . yet local authorities in yunnan province are considering damming on the salween in the quake-prone upstream region . india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , more hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirect the natural flow of any river or reducing cross-border water flows . the one rivers on which no hydro-engineering works have so far been carried out so far are the indus , whose basin falls largely in india and pakistan , with the salween that flows into burma and thailand .
finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with the sharp and unforeseeable upswing in floating exchange rates worldwide . but , in 2011 , most of the equilibration is likely to occur via inflation . finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with the sharp and unforeseeable swings in floating exchange rates worldwide . as for china today , it continues to support a highly partisan exchange-rate regime . perhaps , but most monetary-policy students view quantitative easing as textbook policy to pull the economy out of a zero-interest-rate trap , ” in order to avoid the onset of a lingering deflation , which would worsen the debt burden .
moreover , they demonstrated their shared desire to uphold the existing asian order . both india and japan are longstanding us-led stakeholders , emphasizing in their own international relationships with those of american espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect the territorial and maritime status quo , and maintain freedom of navigation . without such cooperation , china ’s ambitions would simply be constrained by domestic factors , such as faltering economies , rising social discontent , worsening the environmental crisis , or vicious politics . which countries should take the lead in constraining china as a revisionist power ambitions ? with america distracted by its other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers , especially its economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are the best economic-policy candidates .
moreover , appropriate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their commitments under the convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to tackle climate change effectively . at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their obligations under the convention to provide financial aid and technology transfer to enable developing countries to tackle climate change effectively . but , given that climate change poses a more far-reaching and serious challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to address it . the global financial crisis has no doubt aggravated the climate-change challenge .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . florence earlier this month , jang yong kim has abruptly resigned himself from his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of an international financial order free of leadership or direction . kim will join the private-equity company , where he believes that he can “ make the biggest impact on major global issues like climate change . ”
this comes after years of pronouncements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money provides a way to fight deflation ( with which japan has been struggling for decades ) . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has argued that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option at all . the <UNK> ter-money version would be purchases of zero-interest-rate government bonds that are not to be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over each time they have become mature . that is arguably what the bank of japan now does . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has argued that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option at all .
trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . starting in the summer of 2015 , he has embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and gop elites ’ anger . in fact , his voters ’ average annual income , at around $ 72,000 , are well above america ’s median of more than $ 56,000 . media outlets have provided as much as $ 2 billion worth of free coverage , helping him capture and hold leading in opinion polls and most primaries . early in 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and gop elites .
they become soulless bodies , and the moral circle closes in to exclude them . our reaction to soulless bodies is well illustrated in a narrative told of descartes after his death . according to the story , descartes had so far been struck by the grief that he created an automaton , a mechanical doll , constructed to appear identical to his dead daughter . descartes was well known to have an illegitimate daughter , a francine who had been killed when she was five years old . according to the story , descartes had so far been struck by the grief that he created an automaton , a mechanical doll , constructed to appear identical to his dead daughter .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction has summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy the peace and stability of our own countries . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate nervous reactions in restricting democratic human rights . as long as these bombings are aimed at sending the message , i will “ sweep it off and crush it under my legs . ” we wo n’t change the course of our time ; we will not be able to change that course ; we will not have to do so ; we will not have to change our course ; we will not have to do so ; we will not have to do so ; we will have to do so ; and we will not have to do so . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it is grossly miscalculated
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of the many conservative-pragmatists , who lean toward mousavi , who are in no position to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . as long as khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not acquire the presidency , but will continue to represent the electorate ’s hopes for most iranians , who differ dramatically with their own governments . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider its position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power will be thwarted . he must stand up for his two principal demands : the nullification of an election and the establishment of an impartial committee to govern the government ’s violations of the electoral law . mousavi needs to go carefully on his own legal campaign without compromising the trust that he won from iranians .
but , although yanukovych thought primarily of his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . imagine that , with that question in mind , he leveled at the alternative of a ground-filled lifestyles ( with the private zoo and pirate-ship and pirate-ship ) with living comfortably on the substantial pay that he qualified while knowing that he had been governing with integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s lives . something , too , is even more important than one ’s reputation . a political leader has more opportunity than almost anyone else to help people , and this was to have yanukovych ’s greatest priority . but , while yanukovych thought primarily of his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational .
it remains to be seen whether it is trying to engage the outside world in a constructive , sustained fashion , or whether dprk officials and diplomats merely put a good face in advance of shifting international attention away from their country ’s image as a nuclear-armed weapons-monger and a human-rights violator . indeed , incheon ’s visit comes within a context of mixed messages . just two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , an official component of korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korea puppet ” force for grave violations of the north-south joint declaration and push north-south ties to the worst disaster . north korea , for its part , has been far less forthcoming on its intentions . two days before the north korean delegation gathered , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , which is formally a member of korean workers ’ party , denounced as “ south korea ’s puppet forces for grave violations of north-south joint statements and push north-south ties to the worst disaster . ”
everybody benefits from each of us become good at different things , and exchanging our knowhow with others . but , at an individual level , specialization actually results in higher-level diversification . yes , humans do specialize and ought to specialize , too . it is not efficient for the dentist and lawyer . when the idea is both counter-intuitive and actually false , it is often because it is true on one level but not on the level at which it is applied .
by contrast , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitmodified mosquito-borne diseases to expire until risk and effects were adequately investigated , with civil society across burkina faso fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent reflected in its own rhetoric , which eschews an unequivocal word “ consent , ” ” but periodically uses terms like “ “ engagement ” and “ acceptance of ” community acceptance . by contrast , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquito-borne diseases to stop until risk and effects were adequately investigated , with civil society across burkina faso fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of consent translates into its own rhetoric , which eschews an unequivocal word “ consent , ” eschews an unequivocal word “ consent ; ” in fact , after the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw the distinction between the requirement of a free , prior , informed consent in the context of medical research on individuals ( where it requires ) , and in a public-health context . likewise , civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have not been adequately consulted about the target malaria ’s work.the more interviews that i conducted , the clearer it became that local people have not been engaged in a genuinely participatory discussion of the target malaria project , much less than expanded their informed consent . that choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders had already decided to pursue release.reinforcing that conclusion , after the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between demanding free ,
many more have simply become discouraged and dropped out of the labor force completely : not in school , rather than looking for jobs . the world ’s ’s labor markets are now interconnected , and now are interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and america are at work compete with young chinese and indians for jobs . china ’s lower-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the norm for competitiveness globally . they are not much protest , but many end up in jail .
article 7 of the lisbon treaty stipulates a suspension of the rogue eu member states ’ voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” ” requires accepting a unanimous vote by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never be used . indeed , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that serves rule-breakers ’ interests , by all but guaranteeing that they will not be punished . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , encouraging other populists to follow through on their own authoritarian goals , and eu funds to boot . but waning the rule of law is not only domestic matter in hungary or poland .
even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lay lie . in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda , saying that there is incontrovertible evidence of a link with al qaeda and that saddam possessed weapons of weapons of mass destruction . detection technology made it clear that iraq had no nuclear weapons at all , as chief un inspector hans blix put it . it may be that bush read those reports , but that they went beyond his comprehension . it is also conceivable that he did not believe what he read .
sadly , as sri lanka ’s bombings and other attacks in asia demonstrate , defeating isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , given that the battle-hardened fighters with operating exercises to stage savage attacks are now being returned home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how an obscure local group has managed to perform ingenious , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches , and three hotels using military-grade explosive devices . returnees are present in many other asian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . like osama bin laden and other attacks in asia , the defeat of isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , given that battle-hardened combatants with operating exercises to stage savage attacks are now coming home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how an obscure local group has managed to perform ingenious , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches , and three hotels using military-grade explosive devices .
for those of us who had lived and worked in the region during this turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh blows . denver – angelina jolie ’s novel film , “ in the waters and honey land , ” ” ” refers to the ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . the film has already championed two awards , and is an emerging box-office achievement , attesting to an enduring interest – and perhaps mystifying – that the balkan countries hold as frighteningly as they were confounded in the events of the 1990 ’s . one notable exception , perhaps the only exception , was kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president , who died in their sleep on a new year ’s day , on average , at 94 ’s age . denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in blood and honey ’s land , ” is about the ethnic tensions that have wrought the bloodiest conflicts in europe since world war ii .
and that process is likely to accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to secure her proposed exit agreement through parliament . beyond shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also begin to reallocate jobs . moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . there is evidence of falling inward foreign investment , and that is contributing to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . and that process will likely accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to secure her proposed exit deal through parliament .
it recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby subordinating its citizens . it recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby subordinating its citizens . and it views globalization as a good thing , but understands that it needs to be managed through durable , more efficient , international agreements and institutions . yet , if macron qualifies the second-round runoff , he represents an even larger threat to le pen than an outright left candidate would . currently , opinion polls are bouncing in wildly owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in support of hamas outside the socialist party .
an unprecedented level of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in collective mourning and the outpouring of sympathy for spain ; we must build on that enormous potential to create the logic of global solidarity . the european project is a realist in responding to globalization and challenges to its own values . it has been initiated to create “ the solidarités de fait accompli , ” promote political stability , and solidifying democracy and the european social model . this is no nostalgia for past glories . having achieved those goals , europeans now want a positive contribution to world developments .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : why has nobody seen it coming ? while this has been regrettable , it has raised no “ deep conceptual ” topic – that is , it does not demand that they rethink their theory . krugman ’s mercurial response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . in doing so , they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional shifts in the financial system . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data collection . ”
notwithstanding trump and the brexit phenomena , both america and the eu have been deeply embedded in political and social liberalism . the same can not be said for the kaczyński.another huge difference is that east europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes toward each other than westerners , having moved beyond fears of physical security in order to embrace what the sociologist ronald inglehart calls the post-materialist values . in eastern europe , civil society today is not only weaker ; it also focuses more on areas like charities , religion , and leisure rather than on the political issues.moreover , in the vastly different european political landscape of postcommunist states , the far left has been either very weak or totally absent from the political mainstream . indeed , liberalism in eastern europe , after all , is western imports . one aspect of this difference is that east european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions , such as the freedom of speech and justice independence.that should not be too surprising .
nowadays , most forecasters place the region ’s growth potential at about 1 % . yet , while the vast majority of press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains robust . as for the eurozone as a whole , the us appears to have been far too optimistic , even as it foresaw a decline in potential growth rate to 1.5 % . unless germany can shift to the more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will most likely turn out to be correct . but that is a huge thing if it comes at a time when .
in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would avert an explosion in the financial costs entailed by turkey ’s accession to the eu . the magnitude of these remittances , however , would depend on the eu ’s own financial policies at admission time , the result of eu accession negotiations , and the economic upturn in turkey . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s working-age population would most likely be permitted to move more freely within the eu only after a long transition period , possibly not before 2025 . in fact , immigration should not be the cause for undue anxiety , either . given the supposed upswing in turkey ’s economy and its falling birthbirthrate , experts predict a figure of about 2.7 million migrants by that point .
more than most people realize , the gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refuse to accept jesus as their messiah -- as the perpetrators of the crime that lives in any generation . anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew , in which a jewish mob cheers for christ ’s execution and voluntarily accepts lasting guilt : “ his blood be on us and our children . ” the later evangelist jan concludes that , because jews deny the christian messiah they need to be “ the sons of the devil . ” matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie in matthew , which explains the resurrection of resurrection and the disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples came at night , stealing it while we are sleeping . ” anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew at which a jewish mob cheers for christ ’s execution and voluntarily accepts lasting guilt : “ his blood be on us and our children . ”
by the time the crisis hit , thailand appeared to look like all others turning into desperation to the imf . thailand ’s decision last may to slash its interest rates had made it a safe gamble to bet against bhat , an opening salvo in the midst of the crisis . by the time the crisis hit , thailand appeared to look like all others turning in its desperation to the imf . yet , with too much macho , excessively policy , and provincialism , reform never occurred . so the notion that “ this country is different , ” ” ” which the rules of global finance were not applied , turned out to be utter nonsense .
but how can those concessions , given under the duress , be secure ? that is the task for which non-governmental organizations and the protest movements are not well endowed : they may arouse public conscience , but they can not formally commit governments to doing so . it was not least because of efforts to protest movements that france has now made concessions on both these counts . thus , the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests had extracted , the hour of governments had arrived . it was not least through the drive to protest movements that france now made concessions on both these counts .
not surprisingly , he complained that “ far too many ” russians study such subjects . but , because the regime is obliged to dedicate more resources to silencing informed information , most will suffer economically . compounding the challenge , cohorts of informed elites in russia are increasing . as the pinnacle of russia dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( as well as the social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” the majority of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight .
and yet implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency for a strategic end is their capacity to do just that when they are so desired . many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening its currency war . london – the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) – has long insisted that china will not weaponize the renminbi . china ’s monetary policy has come to the fore , now that us president donald trump ’s administration has imposed tariffs on a wide array of chinese goods . if it does , the world should call its bluff .
but this clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . in america , for example , the foreign-born share of the population rose from 5 % in 1960 to about 14 % today . moreover , beyond contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , migrants also often complement native-born workers ’ skills , helping them to earn more . making developed countries changing culturally as well as matters , perhaps even more so . my own professional focus is on economics , so i emphasize the role of growth .
that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change in leadership , and , more fundamentally , a shift to post-oslo politics . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , a leader of the student movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the leading organizers of the initial intifada , which resulted in his deportation bid by israel in the late 1980 ’s . the plo ’s old guard , a man like yasser arafat and abbas to lead the liberation organization from exile and return home to the oslo accords , dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . in 2002 , it was arrested and condemned to a prolonged prison term on charges that led a second intifada that began two years earlier , ordering some of its military strikes . after leaving the scene , palestinian leaders born under occupation and spending time in israeli prisons are likely to fill that vacuum .
this will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the bureaucracy and its security apparatus . but , to defeat the far right , putin will be pressured by the regime to take on a more or less liberal ideological foundation . these are key ingredients in a nationalist stew that seem to appeal to russians nowadays . judging by putin ’s most recent address to the parliament , his regime is acutely conscious of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . the regime is likely to try to counter this eruption of nationalism , while maintaining its robust statist rhetoric .
today , coal and natural gas provide more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for about 5 % . in taiwan , tsai is just as committed to doing so . reacting to public opposition to nuclear energy from japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown last year , tsai vowed to make taiwan a nuclear-free state by 2025 . in response to public opposition to nuclear energy following japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , last year , tsai vowed to make taiwan a nuclear-free state by 2025 . that new load would easily replace the power generated by a country of six nuclear reactors .
rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on the fuel derived from peanut oil . in recent decades alone , biofuels have regained their original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate incomes , and mitigate the dependency that ford has warned . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on the fuel derived from peanut oil . as production of these fuels has grown , we will require policies , programs , and capabilities that ensure that they are used sustainably , without distorting food markets , or at risk of food security that will always be a top priority . rudolf diesel ’s pioneers would most likely be surprised by how little to contribute to the global fuel supply today .
one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a hundred years ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , rather than just their rational interest in more wealth and inexpensive food . in towns , displays in store for shop windows illustrated the costs of tariffs to ordinary consumers . the liberals and the radicals who had organized travels show , color posters , as well as political entertainment . one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , rather than simply its rational interest in more wealth and low-cost food . others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as the barbarian society surviving on horse sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd georgetown , the future prime minister , told audiences that it was more fearful of german sausage than it was of a german navy .
the inordinately lax regulatory environment turned out to be a lethal one , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and bank bonds . it would turn member countries into borrowers and lenders to one another , stoking even more animosity . when the housing bubble burst , it left behind in its wake woefully expensive economies that lost their competitiveness . europe should now use the calm of its storm fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union from the ground up . efforts to create the european equivalent of the us dollar and impose a fiscal union at the very top of it , despite the lack of a common european state , are bound to fail .
moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the advent of floating exchange rates . indeed , the latter now stand at more than 15 % of gdp . hits chinese exports are also likely to overtake the region ’s currency depreciations , yet they are unlikely to experience an immediate prospect . the rival asian economies will have to be stabilized before they can push their exports aggressively . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may be lessened .
moreover , there are genuine disagreements within the american bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to us interests in mali . operationally , it is confined to isr , and it does not involve ground troops . for europeans , that situation is worrying at two counts , at least in the us . symbolically , it implies backing the initial and high-profile efforts being carried out by others . following in the us , from this point of view , the eu is worrying at two counts .
on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions like pension funds , they can be labeled and taxed . the private sector had major foreign assets , whereas the us government had about equal amounts to about equal foreign liabilities . even so , argentina went bankrupt because the wealthy argentines had spirited their assets off from the rest of the country , and therefore outside the reach of the us government , whereas poor argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to meet their claims on foreign creditors . that analysis suggests that the “ excess ” of excessive [ current-account ] imbalances ” of the imbalances ” that are supposed to introduce under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes the wrong direction . in fact , this is mostly the case in europe .
but exposure to foreign tv stations also implies that many disillusioned algerians are looking to flee to italy , france , or germany as their sole hope for jobs and decent lives . the barcelona stars , actual madrid , chile , and milan are household names . disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems largely from their shared love of soccer . will the coming months bring about a genuine transformation of algeria ? will the social and economic reforms needed to ensure the equitable distribution of a country ’s oil and gas wealth ?
lower interest rates worked , but less so because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a housing bubble . was this massive economic misjudgment or currying favors with the bush administration ? the most plausible explanation comes from a combination of the two , for he and bush pursued the same “ starving the beast ” political strategy that calls for tax cuts to reduce revenues , thereby forcing the public sector to downsize . in short , as greenspan departs , he leaves behind an american , burdened by high levels of household and government debt , and by fragile balance sheets , a legacy that already contributes to global financial instability . it is not yet clear what led greenspan to support a tax cut .
land-related issues will continue to undermine global stability , particularly as the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems . ethiopia is hardly the only other recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . a historic drought may have created conditions for syria ’s current civil war . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants into europe . in fact , competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide of 1994 .
because they are leading far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita income to the carbon dividend . on their own , it would represent a smart first step in the right direction , one that is not invited by the “ yellow vest ” reaction . on its own , it would represent a smart first step in the right direction , one that is not invited by the “ yellow vests ” of the yellow vests . but do n’t allow someone to tell that this is a silver bullet , either . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from the predominantly affluent middle class to predominantly low - and middle-income polluters , all while cutting co2 emissions .
rather , she simply understands that for an economy in need of staying competitive , bad-mouthing europe and the ecb are sending out wrong-headed signals . a further lesson for sarkozy of germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership just as much as the accommodating trade union does . by contrast , she advocates an independent ecb , letting germany ’s trade unions and companies know that they will have to live with a robust currency and an anti-inflationary monetary policy . this is not to say that merkel is a free-market capitalist – there is very little evidence of this . german chancellor angela merkel is not making speeches attacking a strong european and european central bank ’s price stability mandate .
and the eu ’s outlook is not that of the hegemon ; rather , it is concerned with the rule of law , integration , and peaceful reconciliation of member countries ’ interests . because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . just when there can be no french security without germany , there can be no german security without poland . germany is in the same boat for all other europeans with respect to its security . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a poor idea ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu , – especially during trump ’s age .
indeed , very few of those receiving ect also receive no benzodiazepines that generate substantial autobiographical memory problems when given alone and antipsychotic drugs that make hardship on names ’ names or telephone numbers and other comparable issues . yet the critics have found it hard to demonstrate memory or other cognitive difficulties that endure beyond the last three months . in fact , there is not much disagreement that ect can produce a short-term loss of memory . the same is true of antidepressants in the us . nor can an enduring autobiographical memory disturbances , and the inability to remember the lists readily account for ect because ect rarely receives them .
cacs , in particular , suffer from the “ “ aggregation ” problem . if a cac required , say , 75 % of all bond holders , the vultures could purchase 26 % of just one bond class and block an entire restructuring . but no government has found cacs adequate to adjudicate domestic restructurings . if they were , there would be no need for a domestic bankruptcy law that spells out issues such as precedence and equitable treatment . so why should we think that they would suffice in a far more complicated world of sovereign-debt restructurings ?
we have arrived at that point , precisely because both russia and the west have spent more than a decade searching for a unilateral advantage and eschewing compromises . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding a common ground will take time . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . a quick deal will not be possible , but it will be impossible to achieve . instead , it should have strengthened the case for an open dialogue and tough bargaining process , precisely what has long been a lack of western policy toward ukraine ’s crises and toward the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region .
but it also represents the global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense and research and development . america ’s federal government expanded again during and after wwii , reflected the country ’s enduring new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( made in no small part by the new deal ’s support for unionization and home ownership ) . contrary to china ’s ’s statist legacy , american historical experience instilled in citizens and leaders a devotion to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy . america ’s federal government expanded once again during and after wwii , reflected the country ’s enduring new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal ’s endorsement of unionization and home ownership ) . the us government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security .
the precise number of european combatants receiving training from isis and returned home remains unknown . isis has reportedly trained 400-600 fighter jets for “ outside operations ” – involving urban guerilla operations , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter-security , and forgery . so far , isis has been hit hardest by france and turkey . abdelhamid abdelhamid abdelhamid abaaoud in the run-up to the november 2015 paris attacks , turkey has claimed that it is one of the 90 ’s isis-trained terrorists in europe . france has incurred more than 230 deaths and some 700 injuries , while turkey endured more than 220 fatalities and some 900 injuries .
to account for the learning crises in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to shape strategic partnerships with non-state providers . in bangladesh , for example , brac schools employ female teachers ( which are key to boosting girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run colleges in terms of learning outcomes . women account for just one-third of afghan primary and secondary teachers , in part owing to extraordinarily low levels of female literacy . but the shortage of skilled female teachers makes such efforts difficult to impossible . fortunately , the afghan government began opening its doors to innovative ngo models like brac ’s community-based education program .
and protesters , fueled by economic grievances , were emboldened by improved broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-down of war in syria . these economic shocks exposed each country ’s enormous costs to the size of the sectarian-based political system . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflected the long-standing use of state expenditures to fund the regime ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s allies and clients , rather than benefit the entire population . as a result , capital and skills were misallocated , the business climate deteriorated , and competition , innovation , and growth suffered . these regimes dominated every country in the private sector through cronyism , not only extract and distribute client rents , but also blocking the emergence of autonomous entities capable of financing opposition movements .
at present , it boldly highlights the disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses now embraced by european union governments . this raises the old question of whether a currency union can function without a fiscal union or , at least , a stronger , more binding fiscal rule ( the maastricht deficit commitments are too easily violated ) . but a reduction in flexibility in response to economic shocks is certain to test it . to this , we need to add coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies , because deposits flow quickly across borders in response to national guarantees and pan-european insurance . will europe be as successful as it first ?
nowadays , however , language barriers keep many immigrant parents from having been given a helping hand to their children with a homework , because the texts are only in english . such a world was only a decade earlier , and a few years ago , and a half years ago , the time has come . nowadays , language barriers are preventing a number of immigrant parents from helping their children with a homework , because texts are only in english . but imagine a world in which textbooks are tailored to many learning styles , and they are translated into myriad languages . but imagine a world in which textbooks are tailored to many learning styles , and they are translated into myriad of contributors .
one powerful school of thought , which emerged almost as early as the killing began in 1989 , is that the more radical student leaders were reckless . indeed , so proponents of that school often add , china was not yet ready for a democracy . if only they could have taken over from china . by provoking the regime , students were derailed by any chance of slow political reform that their more moderate elders set in train . what was supposed to be obvious was a violent crackdown .
delivery issues abound in warsaw zones , but not everywhere . yet international donors are being dragging their feet , both in meeting existing commitments and , in making new ones , into action . it is now too late for non-military instruments of coercion to have much effect , even though the security council ’s threats of international criminal court prosecution for atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must stay on the table . yet what of the military-response options still strongly favored by many policymakers and pundits ? and all aid around the world will not stop the killing .
yet , by reneging on iran ’s nuclear deal with iran , trump has made a war in the region much more likely . for example , when trump calls to reduce america ’s military involvement in the middle east , he is simply echoing obama . and , by withdrawing from his drive to alleviate north korea , north korea , while gaining almost nothing in return , has been strengthening china ’s position in east asia . yet , by reneging on iran ’s nuclear deal , trump has made a war in the region much more likely . to be sure , trump has been waging a global trade war with the us is just as self-defeating .
it is only as vitally important , though , for committees to develop along similar lines in each country ’s provincial areas . merchandise need not passes through capital , because it occurs in most latin american and caribbean countries , with related costs rising . communication between users and government services is vitally important to achieving any real improvement . every country could establish a council representing public entities ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( both exporters and logistics firms ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce the logistics cost . regions then may be transformed into engines of growth .
just as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of insecurity can become fragile and break , imposing high costs on societies . the idea of a temporary greek exit from the euro is especially ill-advised . the fdp ’s ideas have wide support in germany , and among german economists ( and shared by a host of other european economists ) . but the policies that may work in a perfect world of an efficient , resilient financial market might prove dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . and they are in line with positions taken by germany ’s finance ministry under its previous administration .
will it return to robust growth or will we experience an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? many wall street financiers , having gotten their gobs of cash , are turning back to their fiscal religion of low deficits . will it return to robust growth or will we experience an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990s ? many wall street financiers , having gotten their gobs of cash , are reverting to their fiscal religion of low deficits . right now , i have cast my ballot on the latter , especially given that an enormous debt legacy will probably dampen enthusiasm for the big stimulus that is required .
it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be better addressed ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits . lowering trade barriers even more could double average incomes in the world ’s poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years . yet , in rich countries today , sentiment has turned on free trade . prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half .
nevertheless , nigeria ( and maybe zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , an idea that an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . when muslims constitute a minority , they have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the “ us ” versus them ” sentiment has played a large part in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains the exception of islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which is precisely why the notion of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . muslims in sub-saharan africa , however , like most muslims worldwide , exhibit a “ us ” versus them ” a mentality .
and it is an obsession that is rooted in a lot in the current one . indeed , piketty argues that our “ growth obsession ” only serves as an excuse to do nothing about health , education , or some form of redistribution . piketty sees this as grounds for doing little to be optimistic . “ one trillion real growth ” means doubling the size of your economy every 30 years or at least 35 years . indeed , piketty argues that our “ growth obsession ” merely serves as an excuse to do nothing about health , education , or redistribution .
for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is “ an economic competitor ” in its pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . at the same time , europeans are justifiably concerned about the economic challenges they face . that language represents a sharp departure from this earlier official eu communiqués . the coming year will prove critical .
trump , who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would most likely select the dovish nominee . while the us democrats have frequently criticized trump as an approach , they are not proposing more trade liberalization . a left-leaning democrat may have done just the same thing , given the left ’s fascination with the risky ideas underpinning massive amounts of fed-financed debt . the final question to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint the next chair of the american federal reserve . the center-center-left leftists – amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – may reappoint powell , who has done a good job or choose a moderate democratic economist like former fed chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers .
in charles savage ’s recent account of guantánamo “ uprising ” uprising , ” ” ” ” the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials have shown three days after the attacks . in charles savage ’s recent account of guantánamo “ uprising , ” ” the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials have shown three days after the attacks . the globe ’s one-source report has proved nothing – and is unverifiable by other reporters or businesspeople – but has suggested a lot , leading to the spate of similarly non-verifiable reporting that the new york times has been targeted . doranny has argued that the brothers ’ only word to discuss that he understands is “ manhattan , ” ” ” ” ” ” and that terrorists have asked him whether his car can leave the state – say , reach out to new york city .
a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food policy research institute , examines the worldwide downturn , beginning in 2012 , in rural populations . at the same time , those gains have not been more equitably distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than other areas . so far , these gains have not been evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than other areas . a similar study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food policy research institute ( mgi ) , examines the worldwide downturn , beginning in 2012 in rural populations . it finds that , due to the sdgs , 38 million more people will remain mired in extreme poverty in 2030 than is likely to otherwise , with middle-income farm households especially at risk .
the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose a domestic reflation over the gold standard . such policies might then have been fully subjugated to the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility . the bretton woods regime ’s architects kept that lesson in mind once they re-designed the world ’s monetary system in 1944 . the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold during the interwar period . but , as soon as the political franchise was enlarged , the working class had organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals began to compete ( and overwhelm ) external regulations and constraints .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . washington , dc , for more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa are working in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap a meager harvests , not least because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their gender – or , more precisely , owing to the dense web of laws , policies , programs , and laws that place them at significant disadvantage . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including daimler-benz ’s ceo , have already recognized , a open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration can help alleviate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . though pockets of high levels of unemployment do exist today , the working-age population ’s ratio of working-age people will shrink considerably in the longer term . and already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including hardship on retooling and retooling workers , particularly the long-unemployed among the long-unemployed . after all , a substantial share of the incoming refugee population is said to be an education , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , a open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration can help alleviate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems .
this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their benefits , ultimately acquiring a safety net , such as a full-time contracted worker . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of worker benefits and responsibilities for employers . and where access to a wide range of valued benefits , from health insurance to pension subsidies , is made conditional on registering their business and paying taxes , they will have a powerful reason to formalize the job . with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , job opportunities for the gig workforce will grow . for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber , walking a dog for the next hour on rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount to its or her benefits .
at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disaster , by building more efficient , robust and robust containment systems . implementing ( and funding ) , such initiatives , will require sustained political will . for starters , they must take action to protect the rural environment , ensure animal welfare , and improve education , knowledge transfer , and business training for african farmers and agricultural laborers . at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disaster , by building more efficient , robust , and robust containment systems . for example , they could facilitate the provision of affordable farm insurance or establish some types of mutual-assistance schemes .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments of the fed ’s performance no longer explainable through fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of that policy are becoming increasingly visible and become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 excessively loose monetary policy . financial markets are awash with liquidity , which means that governments are awash in the midst of a great recession . key interest rates have remained near or near zero for six years now .
it is easy to forget that a few years ago , a telephones had neither a buttons nor a dial – one in the intelligence community – the concept visualization can be so radical that a majority of ordinary users could barely recognize what it is . designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction . we have seen hints at a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone that permits a gestural finger motions ; but , in the us intelligence community , the concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users can barely recognize what they have . when improvement in a computer interfaces , the form is a key one . the telephone dial did not emerge until 1919 , when the first class of self-designated user-interfaces researchers at western electric considered what the most intuitive form should be .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s ’s ’s ’s name means “ foresight , ” ” because it always looked ahead , in contrast to his diligent brother , epimetheus , whose name means that “ hindsight . ” but that is not yet the whole story . just later , it came about to recognize its dire mistake . as plato tells us , prometheus ’s ’s name means “ foresight , ” ” because it always looked ahead , in contrast to his careless brother , epimetheus , whose name means “ hindsight . ” but , so far , that is not the whole story .
indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one can argue that the immediate causes of the breakdown , when examined closely , are not really all that serious . the chances that they will be able to do so once , they will be able to do so again . the crux of the problem is that a draft constitution would give the eu a new , much easier method for gaining a majority of votes in the council of ministers . under the eu ’s nice summit three years ago , every member state has a certain number of votes , weighted according to the population , but small countries are protected by having more than proportionally fewer votes than large countries . that system is known to have a qualified majority voting , but it is also known that this system is known to have a qualified majority voting .
strong economic growth and expansionary monetary policies were further amplified by this trend , as was done with protectionist measures , such as export restrictions . while there is no doubt that these factors placed upward pressure on food prices , they themselves alone can not explain steep hikes . for example , international maize prices , rice , and agricultural producers reached their highest levels in the next 30 years , generating political and economic instability – and leading to food riots in many countries . several factors have contributed to the crisis , including soaring oil prices , high demand for bio-fuels crops , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal output . international maize prices , rice and wheat prices , for example , reached their highest levels in the next 30 years , generating political and economic instability – and leading to food riots in many countries .
this highlights yet another issue on which turkey and the islamic state both converge : the kurds . in fact , turkey has been offering logistical support to the islamic state , even as it has allowed a group of murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian city of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . the similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring . erdoğan ’s ambition to restore turkey ’s great-power primacy in the sunni world is driving it toward collude with that challenge to the german-devised regional order . in a video produced after the fighting for mosul dam in august , the group called the “ “ end ” of the sykes-picot agreement , ” noting the need to redraw the country ’s german-imposed political map of the middle east .
so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets act on the behest of “ world war ii ” ( the architects , many turkish islamists , who believe in the 1908 young turkish revolution and the secular republic that arose in the aftermath of world war i ) . since entering the white house , the lunacy has only grown louder . yet his core supporters hear the dog whistle behind his condemnations of the finance forces that now seem to be exacting about demanding higher interest rates . it should never be forgotten that trump wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that he asserted that then-president barack obama is not born in the american state , and therefore disqualifying for the office that he held . yet his core supporters hear the dog whistle behind his condemnations of finance forces that now seem to demand higher interest rates .
the us is also doing its utmost to make ukraine an attractive place for foreign investors . in the energy sector , the us is privatized state-owned energy distributors . in order to ensure full transparency over tender processes , and to eliminate the problems that are now experienced , western advisers are aiding the us . indeed , ten prominent international energy firms will take part in privatized , first-class firms . in the energy sector , we are privatized by state-owned energy distributors .
to be sure , japan , korea , and singapore have had similar policy models in recent decades ( though they later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . japan ’s air lines , which were almost bankrupt , were rescued by a government bailout , a facility that appears increasingly common . in japan , post services , which were privatized , are set to grow again nationalized , with the role of government finance becoming stronger . now , however , these countries seem to be espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged just like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for returning government interventions ) . even so , chinese foreign-policy choices have greatly influenced other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-capitalist ” economic model now mimicked elsewhere in the region .
since the financial crisis of 2008 , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . but , for the very least , europe has benefited from falling commodity prices . by contrast , many emerging-market economies , heavily dependent on commodity-exporting earnings , have been stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . without the ecb ’s commitment , following its 2012 slowdown , to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , persistent risks to the eurozone – and , indeed , full edifice of europe – from sovereign-debt default . capital flight would fundamentally add to their plight , in some cases , disastrously so .
almost half of the working-age population is jobless ; local industry has collapsed . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in abject poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food aid . and let the world take note that conditions are worse today than at any time since occupation started . let the world remember that gaza ’s ’s crisis is an manmade disaster . water and wastewater systems are failing ; garbage are hobble in the streets .
new york – the european union needs to take on the responsibility of its lack of a common asylum policy , which has transformed this year into a safe , orderly fashion and , at a pace that reflects europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s enduring capacity to absorb them . that panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and the authorities responsible for the rule of law and order . every member state has focused selfishly on its own interests , often by acting against the interests of others . the eu needs a comprehensive crisis-response plan , one that reasserts effective governance over migrant flows to take place in a safe , orderly fashion , and , at a pace that reflects europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity to absorb them . asylum-seekers have been among the leading victims , and the eu has been among them .
despite xi ’s ’s enduring success in consolidating power and expanding his hold on indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he will be willing to gamble a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining rapid growth . that is where the technologists come in , by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes . at the same time , economists would admit that xi ’s own campaign conveniently strip many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthening position now allows him to replace a credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable . to be sure , whether they are correct about this remains to be seen .
history suggests that international disputes over debts and transfers constitute a grave danger . in the 1920 ’s and 1930s , representatives of european states devoted myriad meetings to resolving them ( at that time , mainly german reparations ) . at that time , it was derided and viewed as entrenched opposition to the european project . sadly , his insight was correct : european countries nowadays find themselves at loggerheads not despite the common currency , but precisely because of it . the american economist martin feldstein , writing in 1997 , wrote that a monetary union would create intra-european conflict .
the same could be said for china today , where the gaps between the rich and the poor , the urban and rural population , and the coasts and inland culture are so great that they are far more difficult than they were before for humans from the varied walks of life to feel that they share shared plights and goals . no single novel , of course , provides a perfect lens through which to view any society . still , there has been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of a political order over that of orwell . whereas a major distinction in the nineteen eighty-four is between the rulers and reigned in a brave new world , people are divided on different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . indeed , whereas a major distinction in the nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled in a brave new world is that people are divided by different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles .
there are similar trends in many european countries as well , particularly in southern europe . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances . fears of losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response . yet the lesson from the recent study is that beliefs about what a government can and should be conducted are not an immutable struggle . that suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunity face an uphill battle in winning out of voters .
copenhagen – in one of his first statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama has focused on climate change and made clear both his priorities and the facts on which those rest priorities are being taken . such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders worldwide , despite this neglects the question of how much we can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . according to obama , there are far too few challenges facing america and the world more pressing than combating climate change . copenhagen consensus in one of his first public policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama has focused on climate change and made clear both his priorities and the facts on which those rest priorities are concerned . obama ’s free-trade outline has been presented through videos of california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors of the global warming summit , and has since been shown in poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out a global warming roadmap .
but the fusion of identity has always been incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence continues to reverberate through a hundred years later , through the uncertainty generated by northern irish “ backstop . ” prior to the creation of overseas empires – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – the englishland empire built a land empire by expanding from the south of the british isles to the northwest . its “ civilizing ” mission shaped a sense of collective importance , as was the narrative of the uninterrupted process of democratic and economic progress . thus , whereas the “ outer empire ” allowed for the uk ’s convergence of its various national identities around a shared british identity , the “ inner empire ” was decidedly english . still , for centuries the british empire generated wealth , supplying raw material , and creating globe-spanning professional opportunities for all residents of the british isles .
freedom of speech and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians assert . whereas the majoritarian government may ride roughshod over minorities ’ interests , corrupt regimes are stealing from all of them . moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a kind of unifying force in countries with profound political divisions . that is why corruption has fueled the mass protests of bucharest in brasilia over the last year . in addition , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with profound political divisions .
in other words , trumpism might be the solution to the crisis of liberalism , rather than the portent of its disintegration . the promise of working with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is reasonable , even as this implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . trump ’s both geopolitical and economic views should be judged against this backdrop of disenchantment , rather than an ideal moral or an economic norm . disengaging peacefully from a position of exposure to global responsibilities will be trump ’s greatest challenge . viewed from this perspective , trump ’s unilateralism represents a populist way of saying that america needs withdrawal from the commitments it has neither the power nor the willingness to honor .
madrid – as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present the framework agreement for an conclusive round of the israeli-palestinian peace deal , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a nonstarter . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans of a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that could yet , yet again , unravel the israel-palestine peace process . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present the framework agreement for an conclusive round of the israeli-palestinian peace talks , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a nonstarter . madrid – in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won the general election in may 1996 , by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposedly intent to “ divide jerusalem . ” but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy – not least owing to the domestic political pressure that he faces .
and the boj ’s alchemists have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . moreover , their latest moves reinforce a deepening commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from those of the economies that they have been empowered to manage . the fed has done nothing , which is precisely the issue . new haven – the end of last summer – marked the beginning of yet another season of futile policymaking by the world ’s major central banks , the american federal reserve and the bank of japan .
the new nato-russia council , created in rome , offers the us an effective and flexible mechanism for common analysis , joint decision-making , and even joint action . it has been henry kissinger , who argued in the wake of the terrorist attacks of new york , and the washington round of 2001 , that tragedy may turn out to be an opportunity . much has already been accomplished over the last six months to turn rome ’s political message into practical cooperation . unless the prague summit showcased any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched the new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia is very much a part of the solution .
and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders untainted with corruption allegations , he was mooted as the likely presidential candidate in the coming election . whereas regime hardliners viewed him as a hero , many iranians , who had been losing their loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or from whom they opposed the regime ’s assault on iranian dissidents in the diaspora , saw it very differently . still , over the last couple of years , the regime drove a shrewd public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime as a terrorist activity outside iran , and a puppet master of its proxies throughout the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet , for iranians , it has been a more complicated figure .
a vocal critic of protectionism , he pushes an eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade pact , and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . yet he also wants to boost the economy with € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) of stimulus packages and an extension of the welfare state . he plans to slash the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from wealth taxation . he plans to slash the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % and to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from wealth taxation . to square france , macron needs growth and relies on supply-side reforms to deliver it .
prague : many americans seem to be overwhelmed by the feeling that since the collapse of the soviet empire , the perils of war can be shifted away from the list of potential risks . america , it is said , should heed its own problems and be excluded from participation in a world in which its attempts to do good are ablaze ingratitude . in the end , america pays 1,000 times as much for its initial lack of interest than it would have been to pay had it become engaged in the early stages of the crisis , or , better still , even earlier . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . america , it is said , should heed its own problems ; instead , it delays engagement once conflagrations .
using the asset-backed security model , the us has recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund , and china to structure up to $ 450 million worth of greenpeace facilities . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing the extension of bus fast transit ( brt ) systems is a proven pathway to crack down on congestion , emissions , and commuting costs . here , too , creative solutions are possible . here , too , too , creative solutions are possible . this allows the pension funds and insurance companies to fund the indirectly needed equipment upgrades in mom-and-pop shops and workshops , from tijuana to tierra del fuego .
europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , might , and i believe would regain control over its frontiers , enabling it to intensify and enforce the necessary limits of migration . such an alliance would also enable a new european foreign policy , one that fosters peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that are not so heavily dependent on american states . the political terms of the new grand coalition government would seem obvious . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , might , and i believe , would regain control over its frontiers , enabling it to intensify and enforce the necessary limits on migration . once again , eurobonds , the green-partnership with china , and european unity could make all the difference .
fortunately , this is precisely what abe is planning to do . as deflation ’s gap narrows , however , the total effect of us monetary policy will diminish , because it increasingly influences the prices of more than output . in any case , the success of us monetary policy is hard to deny . as deflation ’s gap narrows , yet the overall impact of us monetary policy will diminish , because it increasingly influences prices more than output . that is why it is time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-focused first and second arrows to a supply-oriented third arrow : the new growth strategy .
according to a law that dates back to the french revolution , and re-upheld in 1978 , french government officials are forbidden to gather information on one ’s own citizen , ethnic or racial origins , whether actual or alleged , when conducting a census or any other effort to gathering statistical information about the population . there are two major reasons for this , and for the most part , for the last two years . race has always been a provocative subject , when the needs of the science and the statistics intersect with politics . the first is the republican principle , enshrined in the constitution , that recognizes only citizens and accepts no distinctions between them because of their origin , race , or religion . now that the debate is once again heating up in france , because the planned introduction of “ “ ethnic statistics ” has generated a fierce controversy that touches the very hearts of french republicanism .
in both politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , rather than the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries might illuminate the most effective strategies for reaching that goal . nobody prefers to live in a society , where bribes must be paid to secure basic public services , such as health care and education . nobody prefers to live in a society , where bribes must be devoted to securing basic public services like health care and education . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an efficient combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by the belief that greed can not learn , accountability can be taught , and impunity can end up .
in these countries , the ministers are obliged to resign for the petty infractions that seem trivial in other countries . convincing america , the russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may indeed dominate may seem like a futile challenge . but the goal is arguably worth embracing , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically expensive and deeply corrosive to well-being . among other reasons , commercial agreements are more straightforward and effectively implemented . recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in societies is high , economic performance improves and lives satisfaction is higher .
the three musketeers remain positive of some elements of a post-crisis agenda . the fed started a process of normalizing monetary policy , but it did not finish the job , and us president donald trump does as much as he can to keep them off , by heckling from the sidelines . as they put it , “ using the fiscal adrenaline ” could be limited just when it is needed most . there is an urgent need for a restock of emergency initiatives , ” particularly given that there is relatively little scope for relax monetary policy . the fed ’s three musketeers remain positive about some features of its post-crisis agenda .
as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway will undermine trade relations with china when dissident liu xiaobo was tasked with receiving the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . yet the same month , one of china ’s largest oil companies signed a drilling deal with norway ’s statoil clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions will not stop business . china complained loudly , refusing to allow liu to pick up the prize , and even threaten norway with its financial repercussions . human rights law need not take a back seat to do business with china . thus , western diplomats negotiating with china should call a lower-level officials ’ bluff and target al-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that , at long last , decisions are being taken quietly at elevated levels by pragmatic leaders , who are actually susceptible to pressure .
with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth . this means that the us system must shift from a speculative , proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which entails national-security reforms , as well as antitrust and corporate-governance laws , combined with reasonable enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . the us may hoped-for america to demonstrate more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating stronger international regulation , the global reserve system , and better ways to restructure its sovereign debt ; in tackling global warming ; and by democratizing international economic institutions ; and by providing assistance to poorer countries . as a result , globalization has made every country more interdependent , in turn requiring more global cooperation . americans should hope for all of this , although i am not sanguine about getting a lot of it . the us may hoped-for america to demonstrate more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , the global reserve system , and better ways to restructure its sovereign debt ; in tackling global warming ; and democratizing international economic institutions ; and providing aid to poorer countries .
so it comes as little wonder that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states are bent on resisting iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . that issue , of course , is entirely outside israel ’s control . indeed , iran is the only country that has openly declares its desire to destroy another un member . nonetheless , the stakes are far greater than they were in the eighteenth century , because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic ’s religion with the determination to acquire nuclear weapons . the ongoing fighting in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a is reminiscent of the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe .
thus , despite today ’s interruptions , the context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides . both parties ’ agendas are nonetheless different : whereas syria focuses on the token ’s symbolic meaning to return to the golan heights , israel wants a specific , entrenched security guarantee of its northeastern border , just as the end of the syrian-backed syrian-supported hizbullah from lebanon – a country that is practically a syrian protectorate . for israel , a quid pro quo to return the golan heights is not a piece of paper with ordinary platitudes of peace and coexistence . for israel , a quid pro quo for a return to the golan heights is not a piece of paper with ordinary platitudes about peace and coexistence . because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem may be more flexible than it did before , when the golan heights is defending israel not just against syria , but against the bloc ’s seemingly extend all route to vladivostok .
but , while some parts of the security apparatus may encourage an initial crackdown , violent repression would be difficult to sustain . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful to a wage hike that putin ’s ’s ’s united russia party announced , with much fanfare shortly before the recent duma elections . in the fall of 1989 , eastern germany ’s military soldiers joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . during the same year in china , however , the protesters in beijing were crushed by soldiers from inner mongolia who do not understand mandarin and have little sympathy for the country ’s big-city dwellers leaders . whereas the army units or the riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are all too disgruntled at the latest police and military reform to take part in a bloody clampdown , special-operations from the provinces staffed by chechen war veterans may cherish the excitement of sticking it to moscow fat cats .
this is why european leaders have taken up the ambitious steps that it has done . but not proceeding now would have been a disaster , too . the 1992 crisis demonstrated that the existing system is becoming fragile . not to move forward to europe would have set europe in for an even more disruptive crisis . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government-bond purchases would have been similarly responsible for disaster .
moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as us president , he emphasized that it is from hawaii to boast about being america ’s first global strategy . yet its own diplomatic cognitive dissonance – which has been criticizing the egyptian regime , while continuing to supply it with military hardware – can serve only to undermine the bilateral relationship , just as america ’s approach to musharraf has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . america , of course , claims that it , too , knows all about democracy . two years later , us secretary of state hillary clinton has published “ america first ” america ’s unilateralism , ” indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy .
alas , by its behavior in chancellor schroeder ’s re-election campaign last september , germany has maneuvered itself from having any authority on the issue at hand . to give additional credence to its praise , they should leave no doubt that , if war were to become america ’s only option . mr. bush ’s international credibility , they should emphasize , does not suffer from avoiding a war , but gains further through the control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military effort . to be sure , some in america ’s allies are better placed than others to get those points across the atlantic audience for the rest of the atlantic . but they should also emphasize the fact that war is not the only thing to do , and certainly not an automatic “ serious consequence ” to follow from an iraqi non-compliance .
this is particularly true of female farmers facing an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve undernourishment , or achieve other core development goals without strengthening land rights , particularly for women . rather than investing in terraced fields , planting trees , and purchasing high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s smallholder farmers are seeking to maximize their short-term gains . this is particularly true of female farmers facing an added thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other core development goals without strengthening land rights , particularly for women .
but this does not seem to be what german voters want , and that makes the complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable . coupled with all this , there are now northern european discontent with central bankers , explicitly with the ecb and the euro . it is not that the exit from the european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is only just because people started thinking about the possible low futures in which exit from emu might be put on the agenda . i believe that germany would have been better off in a decade under more neoliberal policies . that is enough to shake off asset prices worldwide , and it is important to say the least .
to be sure , its organizers are loath to describe this as a sunni party . but , within iraq , too few persons are either – sunni or shia – who do not perceive iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership . the march 2010 general election delivered iraqiyya ’s 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-place grand coalition , maliki ’s hold on the rule of law . that vision has high appeal among those seeking to see a less sectarian-based form of foreign policy in iraq . rather , it is portrayed as a national party pitting all orientations to participate .
all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , europe ’s entire political experiment . restoring stability in europe ’s ’s ’s ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimate , will require at least one-third of european banks to close or merge . but many are “ zombie ” banks , ” with far too many branches , far too few deposits , and funding costs far exceed those of their more successful peers . indeed , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector , representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion , remains weak , and is unable to generate sustainable gains . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to be anticipating a merger , like commerzbank , another german institution .
none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks . today , ’s febrile political environment certainly will not be able to simplify matters . but the strong rise of low-quality leveraged credit should also be worrying . monetary tightening may be temporarily slowing growth ; preventing bubbles from rising is notoriously difficult ; and the kinds of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are barely becoming popular . they should be taking special care to avoid a real-estate bubble , because real gdp represents an enormous share of overall wealth and a crucial source of collateral in finance .
in the run-up to the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt . yet the european central bank , notably by the ecb ’s executive board member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against reducing debt – a case that is both politically significant and profoundly moral . many economists have argued that this case , based on a survey of arithmetic , is based on a arithmetic calculation . indeed , the principle that no reneging on government debt is deeply intermingled with the advent of a legal safety net , a representative administration , and a modern multi-party democracy . so perhaps it is a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed .
but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , and a growing number of republican members would have embraced an “ disrupter ” – such as the disciple of ron “ quit ” paul – or another conservative preaching a return to the post of pre-world war i gold standard . trump may simply be holding up his powder dry up until a genuine conflict erupts . indeed , some conservative republicans object to another round of appointments , marvin mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed may need a new approach to us monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront a very deep recession or a financial crisis . sadly , the battle over the fed ’s independence is far from complete . and , though someday , the fed will almost surely embrace that advice ( i have also published on the topic ) , a goodfriend ’s nomination barely survived the american senate banking committee .
moreover , how will singh rebalance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? yet india continues to confront its many challenges : almost 300 million people living in poverty , an expanding naxalite rebellion , the threat of a terrorist attack by ala mumbai , and the sprawling urban slums . how will it manage the rising middle class ’s expectations of improved infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? at the same time , how will it manage the rising middle class ’s expectations for improved infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? these problems will not be solved overnight .
proliferation of security lapses mean that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to cast the first stone at a company that is violated . finally , the ap is unlikely to face up to financial sanctions for that error . because few mechanisms can avoid the proliferation of hoaxed tweets and , given the high-profile response that successful hackers might expect , twitter will remain a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers mount a larger challenge . empirically , few firms get this right : american national public radio and the bbc have both recently been hacked by the seas , whereas mcdonald ’s and burger king have recently been hit by their twitter accounts . a lawsuit for casualties stemming from a hoaxed tweet would confront nearly insurmountable hurdles .
several studies over the last year have shown that researchers can indeed detect long-term climate change in the rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and severe storms . detection means a capacity to assign the likely causes of an event to human activity or other factors . a new detection and attribution science is sharpening our knowledge – and also giving us an even greater cause for concern . several studies in the past year have shown that researchers can indeed detect long-term climate change in the rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , severe rains , severe droughts , and powerful storms . attribution implies a capacity to assign the likely causes of events in humans or other factors .
the peer review process that the g20 countries have agreed represents a critical component of the rebalancing agenda , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . the international exchange-rate system , for example , is at least partly violated . when it works , what will emerge will be commitments by the g-20 countries to commit policies that are globally beneficial – on a condition that others stick to their commitments . the us can reduce its deficits more quickly than it would in an non-cooperative case , but only as long as the surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings . the us can reduce its deficits more quickly than it would in an non-cooperative case , but only if the surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings .
and , indeed , taming big tech has become an important issue ahead of the 2020 us presidential election . in particular , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – in my opinion – are the two strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge us president donald trump as he has called for the disruption of major tech firms . that approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically because antitrust laws have been conceived . but the solutions that are being devised , including by legal scholars such as larry summers , tend to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . given the power of major tech firms to choke off competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention .
on one recent trip , i met with rasmata , a young mother who said to me that , because of her savings group ’s safety net , she manages to support her family , despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent deaths , and lingering droughts . during each field visit , i marveled at how these efforts affect women ’s lives . as a result , she was diversifying her income , managing her finances , and even embracing climate-smart farming techniques . those are adjectives that women everywhere , no matter how they are in a financial situation or an education , deserve ascribe to themselves . the best part was that she described herself as hard-working , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious woman .
investing in those firms , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . stock values in the us fossil-fuel industry , based on the assumption that companies will be able to extract and burn all familiar reserves , will plummet . as anyone receiving investment statements knows well , “ past performance ” is no guarantee of future performance . that reality implies yet another compelling case for divestment . if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate this possibility .
in the aftermath of the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the ensuing soviet collapse , the tpp gave way to the g1 +n order , in which all other countries ( hillary clinton ) had not been able to rival america as the sole global superpower . it was not until the late 1970s and 1980s that became obvious that the soviet system could not compete with market capitalism . america broadly championed that order in 2003 , the 2003 iraq war was a clear exception , and , like most countries , benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new sophisticated value chains . democratic and market-based capitalism had apparently prevailed in what francis fukuyama called the “ end of history . ” the ensuing quarter-century was an era of liberal rules-based multilateralism .
instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deeply unpopular pension reforms that included raising the retirement age . with few rallying public options , putin may well have concluded that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under assault . addressing russians ’ economic grievances will not be an easy choice . russia ’s ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western sanctions over crimea . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship .
at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing just that ; and , in amsterdam last year , they ostensibly boosted those institutions . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable detectable progress . first , eu member states say that they want to develop a common european foreign policy . the goal of both the economic and monetary union and the single currency that was adopted at maastricht in 1991 is a bold , even revolutionary program ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will be a reality in only two months ’ time . this stands in stark contrast with other aspects of europe ’s agenda .
this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , a temporary alliance , or , more lasting alliances like nato . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western ” powers , particularly on this occasion , would not , above all , change a fundamental perception that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond it . but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this latest point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . it is only explicit , up-front approval by a reformed un security council , that can deliver the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – requires .
to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; but it is determined to fight until the end of that century . syria ’s balkanization of the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is an obvious predictable outcome . indeed , bosnia-type scenarios may no longer be ruled out , while the prospect that the syrian government will lose its control over its chemical weapons poses an imminent threat to military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is an obvious predictable outcome . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not be able to survive ; but it is determined to fight until the end .
today , government budget allocations are among leading sources of media revenues . in newsrooms , from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is on the rise . yet , in recent years , governments , too , have stepped up their budgetary leverage . unfortunately , while this windfall may be fueling more air programming , it merely deepens the industry ’s woes . governments have been playing a prominent role in domestic media over decades , using paper-field regulation of broadcast frequencies and licensing requirements to shape markets .
the next great step was the emergence of the concept of humanitarian intervention following the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . finally , the same evolution in both politics and international law resulted in the creation of the international court of justice ( icc ) . as a result , the case for international law has been to recognize the “ “ right ” of protecting ” modernity against the governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even as enforcement remains fairly precarious . this development has been anything but accidental in the long term . as a result , international law has come to recognize the “ “ right ” of protecting ” modernity against the governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even as enforcement remains fairly precarious .
axelrod has held tournaments among major game theorists , as well as among political scientists , to identify the most effective approach in the recurring game of the captive of the prisoner ’s dilemma . according to tft ’s approach , a bilateral game should begin with cooperation : if the other player behaves in cooperatively , so , should you do so . it is only if the other player ’s defects , which are , begins by depicting non-cooperative behavior , should you do the same thing . to be sure , when another player ’s player is cooperating , it might be tempting to defect , in order to raise one ’s own payoff , and potentially even secure , windfall . axelrod has held tournaments among major game theorists and policymakers to identify the most effective approach in the recurring prisoner ’s dilemma .
the bjp ’s strategy of painting the us congress as soft on terror , and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india , as an existential threat to india , has misfired badly . yet , unfortunately , the economic trajectory that congress is plotting , though potentially well enough to spur short-run growth , ultimately appears to be on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . in fact , most of the rest of the world has been malnourished children who are living in india . despite rhetoric about “ “ “ “ inclusive ” growth , ” india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s great wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . as for the brexit threat , anybody hopes for peace in the region , reducing tensions within india among religious communities , is relieved by the defeat of india ’s hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) .
admitting that the monetarist cure was insufficient would require mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age . and , indeed , there can be no denying that friedman proved inadequate responses to the great recession – strongly implying that it would similarly have been tried during the great depression . in that case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman to apply keynesian and “ minskyite ” policies on a large enough scale to tackle the problems that the great recession presented . friedman ’s dominance of ideas during the early years of the great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting them than with the fact that the science of economics was all too often tainted by policy . but it is fairly obvious that , even in the 2020s , there was no shortage of empirical evidence in support of friedman ’s ideas to justify their rising dominance .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been mired in turmoil . rising intra-eu tensions have been the inevitable outcome . on the one hand , europe has safeguarded the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-oriented economies , out of speculative attacks , and a chaotic breakdown in currency volatility . on the other hand , the second stage of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . germany ’s ’s ’s pre-crisis actions have been plainly contradictory .
moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the goal of destabilizing the predominantly christian south . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process , and derailing a referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to a full-scale civil war , with a calamitous impact on sudan ’s peoples and throughout the region , constitutes a real possibility . sudan ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal . after all , the repressive nature of the regime in khartoum is at the root of the many conflicts that have torn the country apart . indeed , ever since its civil war ended in 2005 , the people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently been forced to confront the militias that are operating as government proxies .
the other is to capture it directly from an air that uses specially designed chemical processes . the other is to capture it directly from an air that uses specially designed chemical processes . the other is to capture it directly from an air that uses specially designed chemical processes . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a massive scale . ( hydroelectric power generation emits zero , but there are just a few remaining places in a world where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . )
one set of concern arises from shareholder perspective . in a post-crisis world , governments need to assume the role of surveillance and regulation of pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur . such patterns can arouse the anxiety among shareholders that pay structures are not well designed to serve their interests . the figures recently released by the new york times ’ attorney general , andrew cuomo , indicate that the nine big financial firms have paid their employees aggregate compensation exceeding $ 600 billion between 2003 and 2008 , a period in which their global market capitalization declined substantially . such patterns can arouse concerns among shareholders that pay structures are not well designed to serve their interests .
some republican senators have now attracted praise for indicating that they will support a ban on the facility . but , when democratic senator diane feinstein of mit suggested a similar ban in 2013 , republicans overwhelmingly opposed it . consider the theme of “ bump stocks , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” gun modification , which the culprit in a las vegas massacre , used to fire more quickly . such manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to “ fake news . ” it is time to call a spade a spade : the republican party overwhelmingly responsible .
chileans are clamping over for reasonable housing , access to improved health services , a more secure environment , and access to higher-education – the most important drivers of social advancement . chile today is very different from chile ’s 20 years ago . by 2000 , it had fallen to 22 % and , to 11 % , to 11 % today , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . as a result , demands for more opportunities and improved living conditions have grown louder . the 29 % of those left out of poverty behind today are now the incipient middle class with new aspirations and goals .
true , clinton offers many programs to which she would push like president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme at all to her pudding . this impressive , spectacularly smart woman just does not feel for those politics that are being demanded at its highest levels . ( the first effort , in iowa , where she speaks to some eight people in the closed sessions , did n’t work very well enough . ) clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . success in american presidential politics requires super-b intuition , being quick on one foot , and , most importantly , a compelling rationale for going .
even for greece , the imf was arguing that debt dynamics were not a serious concern , owing to anticipated growth and reform reforms . using greek powerpoint presentations with titles like an “ default ” in today ’s advanced economies : redundant , undesirable , and unlikely , the fund tried to persuade investors that eurozone debt had been solid as a rock . just a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meeting in washington , dc , senior staff tell someone to listen that the entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . never mind the fund ’s obvious logic , namely that countries like greece and portugal are facing policies and implementing risks far more akin to emerging markets than to genuinely advanced economies like germany and the united states . even for greece , the imf was arguing that debt dynamics were not a serious concern , owing to anticipated growth and reform .
surveys of the reported wellbeing level are now available for many countries , and the idea of slicing ourselves by using this as the metric of prosperity has powerful advocates . but this option has several drawbacks , including the fact that indicators of wellbeing change little over time . one way to make such indicators more directly relevant to policy would be to track the ways in which people are using their time , and to attach welfare measures to each . for example , happiness surveys in rich countries typically show a score of six or seven on a 0-10 scale . another alternative , promoted by a large and growing body of study in economics and psychology , is direct measurement of well-being or happiness .
these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which had de-regulated financial services , made risky behavior in the city ’s city the norm . the shift toward finance , which thatcher had promoted heightened inequality , made the economy more volatile . her “ right ” to buy ” policies triggered an upward spiral in house prices , encouraging households to take on more and more debt . if that is the metric , then , despite its accomplishments .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy-directed policy advice , particularly those pertaining to advanced economies , has little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . but its forward-thinking analyses have all too often proved backward-looking , and its quantitative projections have consistently been subject to significant revisions . yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . but its own forward-thinking analyses have all too often proved backward-looking , and its quantitative projections have consistently been subject to significant revisions .
indeed , the predominant view among arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free of their beliefs that islam confines all arab women to the same extent , when in reality they experience very different conditions . this is particularly necessary , because women ’s situation is one of the major benchmarks that the outside world and , in particular , the west , uses to evaluate those changes in the arab world . the west thus risks depriving itself of an important pivot to understanding today ’s arab world , and as it will tomorrow . and , sadly , such assessments usually target the supposed immobilism that has derives from islamic norms , which obscures the knowledge of the real changes taking place . this is particularly necessary , because women ’s situation is one of major benchmarks that the outside world and , in particular , the west are using to rank those changes ahead .
riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have stirred up a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three varieties competing to define the region as a whole . yet , according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , religious books rank among the most downloaded work of the literature of the arab world . during the london papers , the american sociologist david riesman identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that seem to be inherited ceremonies , morals , and guidance values ; inner-directed cultures , in which humans behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures responding predominantly to external norms and peer influences . taking advantage of their ability to mass-produce and instantly propagate ancient religious texts and the western-speaking literature , both camps are fighting for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . according to the lebanese sociologist david riesman , however , religious books are among the most downloaded work in the arab world ’s literature .
china ’s ’s ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or above three decades of higher growth . hundreds of millions of chinese were entering the global middle class , and the share of chinese into the middle class . china ’s ’s ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or above three decades ago . until recently , there was little reason to ask for such a question . china ’s ’s ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or above three decades ago .
moreover , there is a strong case to improve america ’s national security if , 50 years from now , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world are learning how america has helped their countries prosper , rather than attempting to hold them as long as they can . then america ’s established permanent normal trade relationship with china , and its refusal to label its government a currency manipulator . there are good reasons why america ’s adopted policies to encourage poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . after all , the reason that this narrative is mistaken is straightforward . in the us , china and other developing countries are growing , america is gaining richer trading partners .
as is so often the case in europe , the gap between eu member states is obvious : the lion ’s share of the money supply ranges from 42 % in finland to just 92 % in malta . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash remains powerful and has become more powerful . there is one more fundamental problem with arguments for the cashless society : most people , at least in the us , at the center of the european union . according to the as-yet-unpublished european central bank , survey of 65,000 eurozone residents by the end of the century , nearly 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and more than half of all payments come into cash . but there is an open question whether the still highly fragmented digital-payment sectors are likely to help their customers more than firms offering a payment solution .
tel aviv – the crises in the sinai peninsula seem to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . but egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian coup , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the army ’s leader , did not diminish the significance of the trouble there . earlier this month , the jihadi terrorists ambushed the egyptian army ’s base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers , and then sped up to the frontier with israel . one vehicle has failed to disrupt the border crossings into the border ; another penetrated israeli territories before being halted by israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) .
but , as countries that have relied largely on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from prolonged , escalating the geopolitical conflict , in which they would emerge under pressure to elect sides . the cptpp and the ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or obsolete rules that fail to account for issues like subsidies to the soes . a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the status quo . to defend its interests , they need to ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . but they also recognize that bilateralism – small countries attempting to negotiate on equal terms with the superpowers – is not an option .
moreover , a few countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments take advantage of new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . grassroots assessments of progress toward such indicators are intended to complement a government-led reporting mechanism . in kenya , every public-sector member state in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies are obliged to sign performance treaties with a central government in which they identify sdg 16 targets , as well as indicators relevant to their mandates , and to account for how they are integrated in policy and development plans . ghana and benin , meanwhile , emphasize the budget expenditures that have far-reaching sdg 16 implications , and ghana ’s government has also discloses how closely its financial priorities are aligned with its stated commitments under that goal . last but not least , some of africa “ sdg 16 champions ” – ” ” ” ” ” ” ” making the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that rising inequality is one of the world ’s great political-economic problems . i can also envision the alternatives to enriching poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 would have done the job there . i can also envision the alternatives of enriching poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 , that would have done the job there . it is hard , at least to me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would transfer any substantial fraction of the wealth of today ’s rich nations into today ’s poor nations . but the alternatives that would have made the south wealthier at the price of shrinking north ’s wealth would have required the wholesale revolutions of human psychology .
any argentine might therefore owe more than $ 3,500 to more than one-third of the average yearly per capita income . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy as a whole . and , because a debt restructuring stipulated that every member of the creditors who accepted it could elicit the same terms as the holdouts receive , argentina could be on the hook for an extra $ 140 trillion . neil capital , and the other vultures , comprise just 1 % of the official lenders , but would receive an extra $ 1.5 trillion of benefits . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the country ’s total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion .
major international financial institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the imf , the imf , the imf , the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) , and the regional development banks – are working hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first-century future . the un ’s authority frayed . it will be vital , after bali , to reflect seriously the next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system . business may moan and the media may carp up , but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems is more – or , at least , better – governments , rather than fewer . until the us reversal from the trend toward declining multilateralism , governments are in a position to respond to global challenges .
economists and moralists were united in believing that one should actually spend less than one earn – to save ” ” ” ” for the proverbial “ rainy day , ” or for an old age . getting into debt was long linked to profligacy , or to fecklessness . getting into debt was long linked to profligacy , or to fecklessness . and when a person became indebted , the point was to repay an obligation when it collapsed , through asset sales , reduced consumption , the working harder , or some combination of the next three . indeed , it was often much more than a honor point : default on debts on the time landed a debtor in jail .
more broadly , marxism ’s emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 has enabled asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . though china ’s economic renaissance already began under deng xiaoping , the post-1989 chinese communist party ( ccp ) , the post-1989 chinese communist party ( ccp ) was able to subordinate ideology publicly toward wealth creation . that example , in turn had a constructive impact on surviving communist parties in asia and beyond . geopolitics , the post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating an ominous empire , and opening the way for china to pursue its own interests globally .
similarly , rather than condemning the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria and al-shabaab in somalia , as well as the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect has remained largely silent . developments following the arab spring may provide some semblance of prospects for religious tolerance . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi winning the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi resigned from the party , saying that doing so would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively and have promised to respect the minority ’s rights . while neither of these groups represents an overwhelming majority of opinion , they exert significant influence , and probably also believes that they are acting in a popular interest . yet successive actions , intended to give him unprecedented executive power , raise concerns about these early positive steps .
fourth , the reversal of the verdict on june 4th represents a historical inevitability , as does the wish of much of china ’s people . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably deng xiaoping and the others of the party elders – have died . this group will unite behind the forces of democratizing both at home and abroad in order to establish a genuinely democratic system . indeed , the party summit ’s top-down leadership has been divided over the event ever since it emerged . fourth , the reversal of the verdict on june 4th represents a historical inevitability , as does the wish of much of china ’s people .
by joining the euro , italy gave up its monetary sovereignty with the outside , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . specifically , the absence of an indigenous currency means that italians can not pick up their own inflation target or devalue their currencies vis-à-vis their foreign currencies . it also committed specific commitments with respect to the behavior of its fiscal policies , even though those constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . mattarella ’s detractors argue that it overstepped its authority , allowing financial markets to veto a minister ’s selection by an popularly elected government . those obligations place the real limits on italy ’s monetary-policy choices .
what , on the other hand , may the pakistan liberal stand for ? in the darkness , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , a yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but rather for believers to unite behind a single true belief . in any contest of opinion , the extremes will usually triumph over the moderate . in pakistan , the extremist right now wears an islamic garb and stands for the creator , the beliefs , and the theocratic rule . once again , we are seeing how misplaced western national priorities can possibly bring down on a non-western nation .
such laws resemble the regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which require that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with the gas industry and insensitive to the pain of pain when it runs into their throats and turn out to be well off . most mammals , for example , need to be killed by a method that minimizes their pain and distress as often as possible . japan , for example , has relatively rigid laws protecting the welfare of animals . japan , for example , needs to be slaughtered by a method that minimizes their pain and distress as often as possible . there are strong grounds for believing that it should be .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his political communications skills , perhaps because they are so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like campaign speeches ; and , after taking office , a series of fake pronouncements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but strengthened it with his base . trump , on the other hand , primarily appealed to the minority he had elected . though large segments of the american population loathed them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , trying to appeal to the center . both fdr and reagan were also recognized as “ great communicators . ”
it is very plausible that , if , rather than join the euro , italy and spain had simply given themselves more autonomy in a single digits , one can presume that greece would have been able to manage just as well . yes , several places , like venezuela , still have been running triple-a price-to-price growth , but now are brazil . yes , several locations , like venezuela , still have been running triple-a price-to-price growth , but now are brazil . it is very plausible that if , rather than joining the euro , italy , and spain simply gave themselves more autonomy to their central banks , they , too , would have very low inflation today . indeed , if southern european countries were to hold their own currencies , perhaps they would never have dug in as large a debt hole , leaving the possibility of a partial default via inflation .
actually , one may have some sympathy for the us president with an aide to whom he wants to have both ways , as cohn did – letting his apparent anguish be known without acting on the subject . speculation over the possibility of the “ new trump ” peaked in early september , when the us president abruptly cut an agreement with the democratic congress party ( congress ) . cohn ’s sin was to allow it to be known publicly that he almost resigned following the end of his violence last month in charlottesville , va. cohn saw himself as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices and sought to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . but there can be problems when a us president chooses to disregard his chief economic advisor .
on may 17 , advocacy organizations oxfam america has sued american securities and exchange commission ( sec ) to issue a definitive rule that implemented section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer-protection act . yet the risks are just as real as potential rewards are . in fact , resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . transparency international ’s full disclosure of anything from treaties to revenue management and environmental liabilities is critical to realizing the sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and breakdown . in less-developed countries , mineral and hydrocarbon deposits often reside in less-developed countries experiencing pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and profound developmental and environmental challenges .
links to west africa come close and back over the past century , with almost 50,000 indians or indian people living in the region . whereas exit controls take place in all of the international airports in affected regions , the virus has been incubating periods of incubation ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak , however , can be up to 21 days ) , it means that someone with zero symptoms from a recent infection can make a trip to india , without setting aside alarms . indeed , scores of people flying between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting via the middle east or europe . recent personal experience at new delhi airport has indicated that nominal arrival inspections , because the us government requires , are loosely enforced , with multiple travelers exiting the holding terminal completed ebola information cards , which was supposed to be handed over to immigration officials . india ’s government seems unlikely to hold tabs on all of arrivals from west africa .
ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which demonize a national endowment for skilled colleges . but the most shocking aspect of the move is to target the arts and humanities departments more aggressively than science and engineering , which are supposedly superior to business . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized the nation-state endowment for skilled workers . indeed , his education minister recently proclaimed that the funding of britain ’s state universities is set to grow at a rate similar to 40 % . the wars between the arts and the humanities are nothing new in the long term , though this is the first time that the fighting migrated so directly to britain .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 on a “ national reconciliation ” conference , conflicting pronouncements by saif al-islam and us security officials were surprised by me . the leadership of the interior security forces colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes currently underway against libyans , has refused to call the process a “ reconciliation ” . the reform “ debate ” over such regimes has boiled down to a struggle between the various branches of security-military apparatus over the best ways to preserve the status quo . given the recent surge in uprisings , it has become more apparent than ever that any “ reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world have previously been aimed solely on the basis of repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for power abuses . for him , it has been a matter of repentance from heresy .
how high would the fed – or the ecb – be forced to raise interest rates on deposits , in order to avoid an excessive increase in bank lending ? that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how it will work in practice . when credit expands too fast , the fed can raise the interest rate on which it pays on its deposits . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the quantity of private-sector lending rates . that , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how it will work in practice .
they tasked the g20 with devising a set of indicators that will signal when any country , including the u.s. and chinese , were at risk of a great recession . sadly , such early-warning indicators are better at a reflection of recent crises than they are at preventing another . the nature of financial risk shifts constantly in ways that are hard to foresee by the use of back-ward-looking indicators , such as those that the g-20 unveiled . policymakers in the nanjing era were promising to address this problem , and they were not obliged to tackle it . they called for a process to ensure that , when warning lights flashed yellow , the country in question would be compelled to correct its policies .
first , he dare not appear to be “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs efforts to try guantánamo detainees to establish themselves in a rigged setting , or even to hold them to trial indefinitely : lawyers claiming that torturing , including sexual torture , were so endemic in the cia and the army that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of inmates whose bodies are crime scenes . moreover , obama has sought to supplant hundreds of photographs depicting sexual assault in us-run prisons , and has done nothing to roll back the patriot act . according to hurricane harvey , a us lawyer at the center for constitutional rights representing some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling out torture practices , so it calls “ classified sources and methods ” ” ” that are not disclosed in court . why , then , should obama , some kind of constitutional scholar backtracking ?
but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without triggering yet another “ lehman moment ” – the kind of worldwide panic that resulted from the era of lehman brothers in september 2008 . moreover , there are no international bankruptcies laws on how to govern such issues , and to prevent asset grabbing effects . specifically , experts like hoenig , who have been thinking of the cross-border magnitude of the bankruptcy emphasize that it simply will not work for the corporate magnitude of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in us assets ) , the american bank ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . when the authorities – explicitly the us federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this may not be possible , they have the legal authority to push banks to change how they operate , including by downsizing their scale and scope . “ panic ” experts like hoenig tell us , “ “ “ “ “ people and people and nations ” generally protect ” and their wealth ahead of others . ”
paris – the central paradox of french politics was confirmed once again in march 27 . but le pen was replaced in january by her own no less charismatic daughter , marine . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( the so named saygénéral ) , the far-right national front captured 11 % of the popular vote cast , but secured only 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength , and its actual representation , has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen formed the party 40 years ago . and , with that change , the fortunes of the front may be changing , too .
i am confident that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make – as many governments understand from the start . australia , for example , has given the us $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 – an amount that has enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatments , with 80,000 people receiving tb treatment , and seven million bed nets going to families in need . the global fund brightened the futures of the hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should make donor countries proud of . the united states has been the global fund ’s largest supporter , but many others have already done its part . with tech support like it , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable , sustainable national health-care system , to be funded entirely by 2019 .
and those lessons are particularly pertinent at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus solely on domestic issues , letting recipient countries deal with issues like the best of them ( opposition to aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday paper recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday times paper recently issued a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid spending ( worth an estimated 0.7 % of national income ) . prior to its electoral victory , us president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries that hate the us , ” ” ” reflecting the widespread belief that aids needs to be slashed . new york city , everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers – can learn from the world ’s largest benevolent foundation on effective development spending .
second , further isolation of iran makes it extremely difficult for india to play a more active us role in afghanistan at a time when america is hastening its military disengagement from the us and seeking to cut an agreement with the taliban . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , does not have a contiguous corridor to that country , and it needs to rely on iran for its access . but the former has fallen prey to a long american occupation , with the latter now facing the us-led oil-export embargo designed to throttle it financially . as a result , america has been seeking to give the international clout to its new iran sanctions act as a double whammy for india . first , it risks sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly reliant on its islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies – which include saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar – that have managed to ride out the arab spring .
it would remain in force so long as the us has been in a strong position to increase its quota and renew its voting share . a key impediment to such a proposal is the congressional authorization of an increase in america ’s quota share . to secure america ’s support , the fed ’s board could commit to no draft decision requiring a 85 % backing without america ’s approval . this opens the possibility that america ’s voting power could temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions requiring the support of 85 % of the imf ’s members . that guarantee could be included in a resolution dividing the reform package .
by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . yet , almost six months into northern african upheavals , the number of arrivals on the southern island of lampedusa ’s southern island of lampedusa has reached about 30,000 . the case for openness , inclusiveness , and diversity within european societies has become far more difficult to make . italian officials privately attest to the fact that current figures are not ungovernable . the problem for italian officials , as for other governments concerned with recent migrant flows , is the pressures of the right-wing populist parties that no longer need to be on a defensive .
in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , depending on the same oecd forecasts , it will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely the same type of economic stimulus as in germany , to 4.4 % of gdp . moreover , germany has far more internal stability than america ’s , because it has no problem with the heavily indebted households that are now restricted in borrowing . whereas that certainly impedes longer-term economic growth and raises large structural problems , it also implies that the state reacts extraordinarily counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy to a great extent that benefits the entire world . germany ’s state registered a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , according to a recent oecd prediction , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . so the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state budget will total 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 .
in the private sector , the bric index funds proliferated , even though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term – the “ next 11 , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” or n-11 – toward the debate . just a couple of months earlier , it was moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g20 summit in april , which highlighted their shared determination to alter the rules of the global economic system . that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , because each member declared its desire to unseat the us dollar as the global reserve currency . yet catchy thought die hard , and russia moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into an irreversible reality . the brics ’ ossification into the de facto global institution is moving forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ”
after all , the victory of the cold war was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose effort to reform the soviet union had thrown down its collapse . reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole the cowboy ’s cruelty with movie-star charm , even though luck , too , had played a role . his strategic defense initiative , aimed at ending the trilateral strategy of nuclear-deterrence , known as “ mutually assured destruction , ” was , indeed , nicknamed “ star wars . ” with its well-rehearsed , sunny pretenses , reagan expertly played his role as us president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . after all , the victory of the cold war was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose effort to reform the soviet union , which had hastened its collapse .
experts would remind us that kazakhstan was never a country , and that ukraine ’s claims to its independence are historically dubious . indeed , rather than hear about a urumqi crackdown , xinjiang ’s capital , perhaps one could read around hundreds killed in almaty streets , with columnists making comparisons with the bloody crushing of ukrainian independence demonstrations in istanbul earlier this year . a substitute for xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you get an image of it . as with china today , there would have been some feeble international condemnation , as well as some speculation over potential linkages between kazakh militants and exile groups or islamic fundamentalists . indeed , experts would have reminded us that kazakhstan was never a country , and that ukrainian claims on independence are historically dubious .
renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans to create new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . in august , the currencies of the exchange-rate regime had been loosened only slightly . and chinese policymakers were making it abundantly clear just how unhappy they would be with negative decisions . the answer is obvious : china mounted a full-judicial full-judicial press to change the mind . so , why has the imf flip side ?
foreign governments ’ policies affect only how deficits are divided among america ’s trade partners . but there is no reason for america ’s trade deficit with the us . the overall us trade deficit is the result of america ’s saving and investment choices by american households and firms . foreign governments ’ policies affect only how deficits are divided among america ’s trade partners . the reason america ’s ’ ’ ’ saving and investment choices are driving the global trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more overall output than it invests in business equipment and constructs , it has an extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that he created , modi has been debating going even further , moving india to an entirely “ cashless ” cashless society . nowhere has been “ policy skeleton , ” ” there has been no cost-benefit analysis , and there is no evidence that alternative policy options are being contemplated . judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems obvious that no impact studies are being conducted . many modi supporters argue that demonetization policy ’s problem is inept at best . but the truth is that its design has been fundamentally flawed .
in kenya , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – which is widely famous for its abduction of 276 schoolgirls in 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties on suicide bombing and beating civilians . and , soon after the attacks in paris in paris last month , gunmen belonging to an al qaeda affiliate stormed a radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 people . washington , dc , – on a scale witnessed in paris last month , is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – which is widely famous for its abduction of 276 schoolgirls in 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and assault on civilians . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted its tourists , orchestrating attacks on a museum and beach resort .
so the saudi regime is being divided , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are mounting . indeed , with the royals ’ ratio to only one in 1,000 years now ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge for managing princely privileges , salaries , and job demand has never been more acute . as older generations have been killed , a new generation has come down to struggle against buyers . that is no longer true of the thousands of princes producing whom they have produced . royal perks comprise the lifetime sinecures and domination of the civilian service , enabling princes to award contracts and get commissions atop their salaries .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : something must we starve our children in order to service their debts ? as the worst drought in living memory devastated harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 trillion were mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , health care , and clean water provision . yet nyerere ’s question continues to date , like the dark cloud over somalia . over the past year , unprecedented humanitarian efforts have pulled somalia back from the edge of famine . that came in 1986 , in advance of public campaigns and initiatives to remove much of africa ’s grumblings and unpayable debt burdens .
there is a strong likelihood that a weaker american economy and lower inflation will force it to slow down the pace of its withdrawal from liquidity support . whether a correction in risky assets is temporary , or the beginning of a bear market will depend on a few factors . one is whether the fed will actually truly exit from qe as rapidly as it signaled . brazil and other countries , which have complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars , ” have now suddenly gotten what it wants : the likely early end of the fed ’s round of qe . the consequences , then , are whether the fed will actually truly exit from qe as rapidly as it signaled .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . berkeley – from late 2014 onward , the us has been advocating a model of american governance based on the tenth amendment to america ’s constitution , which stipulates that “ “ “ “ powers neither delegated ” to the united states nor prohibited by the states – are reserved to states respectively or people . ” increasingly , california has been touting these constitutional prerogatives .
europe is slipping back into recession just when the recovery in the united states finally gained some traction . with the exception of japan , all had first-hand experience with the wrenching asian financial crises of the late 1990s . i moderated a session of the century on “ a new context ” in east asia , ” ” ” ” addressed by a panel of high-level representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . yet i took away a very different conclusion from davos . i could not resist the temptation to draw asia into the american-american debate .
we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to more extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that damage food supplies and the planet ’s quality of life . great scientific thinking has learned over many decades to read ” the earth ’s history to understand how the climate system works . and the message is clear : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the biology and chemistry of the planet . the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message , and we need to do so . great scientific thinking has learned over many decades to read ” earth ’s history to understand how the climate system works .
others have been motivated by a desire to establish a competing center of power , however unrealistic that appears to be . because europeans are militarily irrelevant , they argue , it should not be surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy , rather than military might , to settle disputes . on the other hand , no one should be surprised by the fact that americans chafe at constraints on their capacity to engage in american military hegemony . some integration advocates see a united europe as a powerful partner in the americas . some commentators have started pointing out the divergent views faced by america and europe about the role of international law , as opposed to the use of force , to adjudicate disputes .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august has tested europe ’s security system , and the system has failed to fulfill its core task to ensure joint security for the continent as a whole . even before the georgian crisis , russia has already seen the need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and function . the us has suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security guarantees to ensure equal european security . as a result , europe needs to revisit its current security arrangements , analyze what happened , and take that analysis into consideration in reforming these arrangements . the european union believes that the russian initiative is well grounded , and has shown interest in initiating such a project .
that question arose from the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . a woman , heather heyer , was killed , and the 19 people injured when james field , a white nationalist , drove his car at a high rate into a crowd of counter-protesters . white supremacists organized a rally to protest planned removal from a statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate armies during the civil war . white supremacists held a rally in protest for a planned removal from the public park of a statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate armies during the civil war . a counterprotest was organized , with street fighting broke out .
china ’s modest experiments with local elections were complemented by exercises of “ deliberative democracy . ” the zeguo exercise was deemed immensely successful and replicated elsewhere in china . chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to issue a representative sample of citizens from the zeguo for an assembly that uses keypad polling devices and handheld computers to decide how the city should be spending a $ 6 million or more public-works budget . and wen has indicated that village elections may extend to the next highest level of government , the township administrations , in the coming years . china ’s modest experiments with local elections were complemented by exercises in the “ deliberative democracy . ”
the eu , japan , and the us would become even more efficient if they aligned their policies to block criminals from accessing their markets , allowing legitimate operators to enjoy the benefits of “ supercharged ” as a level of access . eliminating rogue fishing will help to replenish marine life and secure food and livelihoods for billions of people . european regulators have already introduced sophisticated surveillance and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with a track record of illegal fisheries , penalized european rogue operators , and helped to encourage “ yellow or red carded ” countries to reform their fisheries laws . such efforts – for example , the eu ’s electronic documentation scheme for the atlantic bluefin tuna catch – represent one of the most powerful instruments to eliminate illicit fisheries . european regulators have already introduced sophisticated surveillance and surveillance and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with a track record of illegal fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped encourage “ yellow or red carded ” countries to reform their fisheries laws .
but a recent symposium at oxford university concludes that emerging-market cities can improve and sustain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , embracing successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . they are also likely to be hit hardest by natural disasters , such as droughts and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty are helping to create the fragile environment that spawn civil disorder , the resulting death and injury . indeed , many potential solutions stem from opportunities for innovations created by humans ’ physical concentration and economic activity . yet , a recent symposium at oxford university concludes that emerging-market cities can improve and sustain urban health by capturing the inherent benefits of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , embracing successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes .
our achievements in the myrna mack matter are notable , but achieving them has proven difficult : police interrogators have been assassinated ; judges have been under threat ; and witnesses have fled into exile . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first efforts to bring high military officers to justice to justice . regrettably , the trials have been delayed indefinitely , because the defendants ’ lawyers have appealed the case . this was followed by a june 2001 court ruling ruling that established a trial date , making it possible at last to put up evidence against these individuals . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring high military officials to justice .
the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 and solidified the point last month with its united nations climate change and land report . that certainly has not happened at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland . the question now is whether this will translate into a commitment to take the necessary action . some major economies , including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , and canada , have now formally recognized the scale of the crisis . proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we are facing a climate emergency demanding radical and urgent action .
it is both dangerous and unfair to undervalue german chancellor angela merkel , but she no longer has the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world or to rally europeans on their own terms . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s power with its closest historic and cultural relationship with russia , is at the receiving end of the political cycle . with the united kingdom and germany currently incapable of playing a significant diplomatic role , and italy , spain , and poland in no position to become principal actors , the conclusion is fairly straightforward : partly through default , and in part because of the sheer power and fantasy of its young president , this is france itself at its moment . mediating among various systems , looking beyond the current incarnation of any other country , has been charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia comes perfectly into tune with france ’s simple gaullist tradition .
the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s due to its inability or unwillingness to do so was not completely obvious which – of leading governments to manage the rising tide of capital inflows . the third path , identified by the trilemma , aims to do away with national sovereignty entirely . writing the rules along harry dexter white in the twentieth century , john maynard keynes viewed capital controls as not as a temporary expedient but as an enduring feature of the global economy . thus , they contemplated only “ thin ” globalization , with capital flows restricted largely to long-term lending and borrowing . what they understood is that a democratic country would need is space to conduct an independent monetary and fiscal policy .
over time , however , improved attribution forensics may enhance the role of punishment ; and improved defenses via encryption or machine learning can enhance the role of prevention and denial . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to maintain . because the technological innovations that are occurring faster than those in the nuclear field , cyberwarfare is characterized by an ever-widening reciprocal reciprocal fear of surprises . moreover , because states and organizations come to terms with better understanding the constraints and uncertainties of cyberattacks and the increasing importance of internet entanglement to their economic wellbeing , the cost-benefit calculations of cyberutility can change . over time , however , improved attribution forensics may enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses via encryption or machine learning can expand the role of prevention and denial .
the georgian conflict was followed by a steep decline in investor confidence . in georgia , on the other hand , russia moved from its support of its territorial integrity in order to disrupt the country in the next three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do just that . likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made it clear that it would veto an agreement proposed by un secretary general abu tii ’s special envoy , the former finnish president martii ahtisaari . now , russia needs to ask itself its relationship with the short-term military victories and long-term economic prosperity that it once promised . even then , the us agreed to another four months of eu-us-russia negotiations , in order to ensure that no stone is left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise .
fracturing the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes worldwide . more broadly , such a strategy might also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . finally , trump ’s ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too much on the us for its own security and prosperity . the democracies that built that order embody the values that are antithetical to authoritarians .
a host of international negotiations on issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants are benefiting from such alliances . knowledge-based organizations are forming a broad spectrum of alliances with the media , and play an important role in influencing public opinion as much as diplomacy does . in the us , new institutions emerge that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly for use in programs that certify sustainable resource use as they do on forests and fisheries . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to take advantage of the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . modern international diplomacy tends to rely more and more heavily on groups that make the rules , establish standards , and gather technical data .
but it took more than five months for parties to agree , with the largest opposition party now the far-right alternative for germany . to be sure , a new , grand coalition government , comprising chancellorship , angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social-democratic party party ( spd ) , was formed in a country that seemed to have been inoculated against populism in the wake of its nazi history . even germany has , to some degree , fallen prey to populist forces . nor was the strong showing by the populist parties in the presidential election this month in italy , where the anti-immigration league party and the anti-establishment five star movement secured some 50 % of the popular vote . in a country that seemed to have been inoculated against populism in its nazi history , this is an especially distressing development .
most importantly , the government appears to be backtracking on a commitment to authorize a binding referendum on opening up the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . reelection is permitted only to candidates nominated by the same party for which they have originally run , and allowing legislation to be independent candidates , ballots , and referenda remain unclear . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea . likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements that the country ’s political and electoral reforms seek . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue , with no one investing a high cent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , because opposition claims will happen .
central bankers told themselves that they had given asset markets all the attention they deserve , by specifying that housing prices and equity prices could account for the degree to which they implied information about goods inflation . regardless of how it took , it started receiving some heavy blows just a couple of years ago ( analogous to crises hitting exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the greatest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became obvious that central banks relying on it did not pay enough attention to asset-price bubbles . but that flight clause turned out to be insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by an inflationary upsurge . that boom-and-bust cycle could have occurred without inflation .
that fine amounts to $ 2,000 per worker , far less than the current average premium of $ 16,000 per worker on employer-provided family policies . but , even for full-time employees , firms may opt out of taxes of a relatively minor fine , rather than providing an insurance . rather than incur the cost of an approved policy , a smart employer can pay a fine for not providing an insurance and raise employee pay on a sufficient basis that they have more spendable cash following the purchasing power of an insurance policy . that fine amounts to an average of $ 2,000 per worker , far less than the current median premium of $ 16,000 for employer-provided family policies . employers can avoid a mandate by cutting a worker ’s workweek to below 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time work ) .
so far , blair has proved his resilience to such accusations . both his cabinet ministers , who resigned over the affair , make bin cook and clshort shrift , want their own revenge , and therefore continue his assault on blair on his `` falsehood . '' indeed , he went on a counteroffensive , notably against the bbc , which did not exactly encourage a war of enthusiasm . but does uncertainty now lurk blair like a vulture now smack of appeasing the appeasing foul of the lie ? so far , blair has proved his resilience to such accusations .
it adamantly opposed a few important and promising new human-rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and the new anti-torture mechanism . yet , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july by the un ’s economic and social council . here america found itself allied with some odd bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . increasingly obsessing about the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america has over the last couple of years contributed to the widespread erosion of the un ’s human-rights monitor system . here america discovered itself allied with some odd bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , or zimbabwe .
what needs to be said is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as a european leader . nor will it be sufficient to recall the historic advantages of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery of europe . britain , which has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility , should once again be ready to take the lead in a progressive movement , spearheading action to combat climate change , resist protectionism , and encourage more sustainable growth . it must take the lead in mobilizing europe to allow the global economy to work toward people , protect them against injustices , and inequity . nor will it be sufficient to recall the historic advantages of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery of europe .
the same goes for virtually any other kind of consumer-facing business , from airlines to foods . when a company sells a car that , say , ca n’t be adequately tested , resulting in injury , the company will pay a price . yet the expectation of a reasonable form of consumer protection is being erected in the us economies . a restaurant ca n’t evade responsibility for serving expired foods simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware ” beware . when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not simply passive consumers , given corporate traffics in their data .
the asylum system is totally unprepared to handle a new generation of refugees , ineligible as part of an existing framework , because they are fleeing not from particular acts of persecution , but from the disintegration of their states . a temporary residue of residence , in europe or outside the eu , would make sense if a rapid return to normalcy in the ’ ’ ’ ’ countries of origin was a realistic prospect . so , what is to be done ? the asylum system is totally unprepared to deal with a new generation of refugees ineligible as part of the prevailing framework , because they are fleeing not from particular acts of persecution , but from the disintegration of their states . they can be given “ humanitarian protection ” or be granted discretionary leave to remain ” in the short term ; but they can then be deported as illegal immigrants .
princess di ’s legacy in generating an iconography that opened the way for tremendous social change is grossly underestimated . in other words , ms. obama manages to set himself up , unprecedentedly as the “ people first lady . ” in her brief lifetime , she has often been lauded for the sake of qualities ( her beauty and style ) that put a secondary eye on her life , and derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality and chaotic personal way ) that is just as beside the point . as a result , very few people have noticed how genuinely , powerfully , powerfully transformational her agenda is , how well she thought it out , and how audaciously she struggled to manage . it has been carefully studied not only jackie kennedy , compared to a striking comparison from her sheath , boat collars , and page-boy haircut – but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous but undercounted radical , princess diana .
meanwhile , some of the pro-growth policies now being mooted could , if not well designed , heighten the risk of disruptive financial fragility , further complicating central bankers ’ challenge . the protracted brexit process is hampering the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , with the short-run impact of governments ’ weaponization of trade tariffs complicating the task of both the fed and the ecb . other risks are already fueling the central bankers ’ headaches in recent years . the notion of the “ people ” of qe ” – which is , the more direct channeling of central-bank financing to populists – gaining more attention from both parties across the political spectrum . other risks are already being raised by the central bank of england ’s own headaches .
in doing so , however , the elections have represented marked progress . in fact , many opposition groups have engaged in dirty tricks . he has resigned only after winning elections to the parliament in may . he himself presided over many violations , a reality noted by the osce back in 1999 . clearly , ak zhol accusations of impropriety as a weapon against government parties .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . in fact , china ’s ’s ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been impressive .
its combined gdp grew from $ 95 trillion in 1970 to more than $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . and it is the only plausible platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . yet asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . over the short term , it appears to be moving like a crab , two steps forward , one step back , and one step sideways . and it is the asia-pacific region ’s only robust geopolitical engagement , unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all asean ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia .
as a result , glimthatcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks the physical basis of it in brazil . much of modern economic and financial theory rests on the assumption that humans are rational and therefore systematically maximize their own happiness , or , as economists refer to it , their “ utility . ” when samuelson took on the topic in his 1947 book the future of economics , he did not look into brazil , but instead relied on “ revealing preference . ” people ’s ’s objectives are revealed only by observing their economic activity . under samuelson ’s ’s ’s 1947 book , generations of economists based their research not on any physical structure underlying thought and behavior , but simply on the assumption of rationality .
central-bank balance sheets have expanded , with policy rates having reached their “ near zero bound ” internationally . but policymakers do have one more possibility : a shift to special-purpose fiscal policy in which they are directly financing government spending by printing money – the so-called “ helicopter drops . ” there is plenty of cheap water that sounds like , but the horse refuses to drink . the new money would circumvent the financial and corporate sector , going straight into the thirstiest horse : the middle – and lower-income consumers . with no signs of inflation and growth still tepid and brittle , many are predicting chronic sluggish growth , with some even worrying about another global recession .
it quickly became a “ rich versus poor ” story , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . alarmed by public reaction , harbin magistrate ordered that case , only to have a suspended term confirmed when the case was shut down this march . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he had gone easy on it , because her husband had been affiliated with high-ranking provincial officials . the case went to a local court in which a judge ruled it as “ an accidental traffic disturbance ” and issued a driver a two-year suspended sentence . over the coming months , newspapers and tv stations ran on a narrative that snowballed into a national obsession .
repeated military interventions in the large muslim nations of egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey impeded orderly political development . but those countries ’ rising middle classes have started to shift their political systems in yet another direction – the testament to the power that they now wield . that power has surged for several reasons . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at mid – to upper twenties . with over half of these countries ’ populations under the age of 30 , political developments have enabled the movement forward , despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
the goal is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibilities laws that curb the ability of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . though latin america ’s ’s ’s economies are now performing well through reform and high commodity prices , underlying problems are underlying . third on the panel ’s ’s ’s list is increased investment in construction and infrastructure maintenance . the rules are needed to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt , and to require transparency , in order to ensure that the public knows what ’s going on . if matched by a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility , countries could boost their economic growth substantially .
second , countries need to shift their focus from building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success and avoiding the allure of the latest gleaming innovations . a new paper by pathways for the technology prosperity commission and an inclusive development report , established by oxford university ’s ’s ’s ’s london blavatnik school , indicates just how countries can address this issue . this has resulted in many disappointing pilot projects that fail to deliver sustainable impact on scale . too often , developing countries have seized upon new technologies , – which rely on tablets to schoolchildren ! – without giving enough thought to how they would be used in specific national contexts . the report urges them to establish the foundation for “ digital building blocks ” – including core infrastructure and skills – to harness positive disruptions to education and health services .
and , in part , that is because growth is not unconditionally desirable : citizens may be better off with little or less of it and more clean air . but , more broadly , it is hard to deny that the global economy lacks any momentum at all . this is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to grow by 10 % each year or more . so , there must be something else holding back growth . but , in part , there is a strong case for denying that the global economy lacks the momentum .
in april 2009 and again in april-may 2010 , the disenfranchised “ red ” shirts camped out in bangkok to demand new elections , but they were dispersed by the military , with 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks , and the loss of credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , red shirts have grown in number , demonstrating a monthly vote against abhisit ’s government . pad ringleaders are now denouncing all politicians as “ corrupt , ” and extol the virtue of the monarchy . using the weaponization of the anti-corruption drive and the rising tide of nationalism ( the product of the periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points out a extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff . likewise , after two years , pad yellow shirts have returned to the streets to show their disillusion with the abhisit movement .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years ahead and decades ahead . and corporate benefits will move well beyond saving , because automation will spur innovation , improve forecasting , optimize operations , and lead to a better customer service . in any technological transition , those leading a change can not lose sight of the human component ; there are some things that even the smartest machines can never do . gartner , a research and an advisory firm , estimates that the ai-enabled ai tool will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , with pwc forecasts that could contribute as many as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . some estimates indicate that companies could save just as many as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation .
because they can not be good at all , they need to concentrate on what they are best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . but , while some ideas are intuitive or manifest , they may also be wrong and dangerous . and the notion that towns and countries actually do specialize is one of those very wrong and dangerous notions . as is often the case , this is not what one does n’t know , but rather what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . they should be making few things very well , and they will exchange for other goods that do better elsewhere , thereby exploiting gains from trade .
the situation deteriorates , and , over the longer term , it is bound to become unsustainable . it can continue to do no more than the bare minimum to preserve the euro . the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . europe would have been infinitely better at making germany a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , no matter how much ; indeed , germany would have been better off just as well . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until after the next election .
but , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the soviet dissident song of the people ’s republic ; i will hug the chinese , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the bilateral relationship has deepened considerably , exemplified last week by last week ’s g7 forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas , ranging from agriculture to technology . for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly an enticing temptation . after more than five years of international sanctions imposed on russia following its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . yet , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the soviet dissident song of the 1960s , “ the people ” are brothers ; i will hug the chinese , ” ” ” ” which mocked ill-fated early experiments in the russo-chinese union .
and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following the parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , with opposition voters already viewing tusk as the only viable contender . warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as the president of the european council is set to end on may 30 november – which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and , indeed , that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world .
you do n’t particularly want to lend to them on a daily basis ; but , if someone is prepared to pay , say , $ 200 to rent them on a dinner party , the trouble might be worth the price . and , if one wants him to pay , rezz.it can help you pick up without feeling like a cheapskate . and , if one wants him to pay , rezz.it can help you pick up without feeling like a cheapskate . or , if one wants him to pay , rezz.it helps your home collect without feeling like a cheapskate . or you may have an array of under-used dining chairs .
fifth , the two parties should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance of signing an agreement . but the recently announced impeachment hearings against trump may have thrown a wrench part of that process . i am one of the few commentators who have been arguing for each year that , despite the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make an agreement more likely than trump does . following the high-level negotiations between chinese vice president liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer this month , outstanding issues should be agreed in beijing early november . gaining the deal made before thanksgiving is critical to undergird us business and consumer confidence during the christmas season .
europe ’s institutions , like germany ’s , tend to favor a degree of strategic autonomy , whereas france favors a conception of nato-european sovereignty . at the same time , we have analyzed supposed obstacles , difficulties , and conflict should germany and european policymakers decide to pursue that goal . but both concepts are often applied interchangeably . we understand strategic autonomy as an ability to set one ’s own priorities and make one ’s own choices concerning foreign policy and security issues , combined with institutional , political , and material resources to recognize such choices , either in cooperation with the third parties , or alone , if needed . in trying to clear affairs , my colleagues and i recently suggested an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ”
in september , the united nations office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation has skyrocketed to a record-high 60 % of gdp . as a way to tackle this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run scientific pilot projects for afghanistan ’s opium licensing system , which would be a cornerstone of the process of economic reconstruction . indeed , eradication of poppy crops not only damages local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals ; it also fails : the opium industry last year has been at an all-time high . indeed , eradication of poppy crops not only damages local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals ; it is also failing : opium production last year has been at all-time high . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it is destroying the single crop that will grow in the global south ’s cruelest climate – and thereby serving as the principal revenue source for millions of people .
ninety-five percent of muslims , including much of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace , and place an end to the long humiliation of islam that only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make a difference . yet the bush administration 's scares of the us , the bush administration , and the international criminal court scares us . the concept of a preventive war is poised to incite precisely that " the clash of civilizations " that was predicted ten years ago and must be avoided . muslim faith counts as one billion or more men and women worldwide among their supporters . ninety-five percent of muslims , including much of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace and place an end to the long humiliation of islam that only advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make possible .
nonetheless , by initiating its omt scheme , the ecb has committed germany ( as well as the other northern european countries ) to its approval of their parliaments , to a potential obligation to bail out the – a good thing , whom , precisely ? likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting the bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ sovereign debt . it would have meant accepting in 2012 , what was called the redenomination of risk ” – the economic newspeak of a eurozone breakup . but blindly sticking to the principle would have been a high-risk option for the ecb . indeed , the typical northern european taxpayer support a typical stakeholder in northern european banks appears over-exposed to southern european borrowers .
this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually does , again playing into isis ’s hands recruiters . by equating the struggle against isis in the struggle against the former soviet union , trump elevates a terrorist organization into great-power status . at the same time , trump has expressed an interest in cooperating with russia to remove isis , ostensibly oblivious to the need for russia ’s participation in syria to propping up assad ’s regime . at present , iran is permitting russian long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-quixotic efforts to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin about ending the civil war . such a partnership might prompt trump to strike an agreement with iran that is more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria .
as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below the level of 2008 . indeed , a recent mckinsey global institute ( mgi ) revealed not only that europeans aspire to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( particularly health care and education ) , but that they are ready to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protections , to accomplish them . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact ( sgp ) . and , in fact , the status quo is in urgent need of change . a whopping 91 % of the 16,000 respondents said they would favor change to the status quo , even if that required some sacrifices .
the us economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and education and health statistics are impressive . the us economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and education and health statistics are impressive . all developing countries are facing myriad challenges , but this is particularly so far the case for a country that has suffered from an intense , 30-year civil war . underlying wars like the struggle with the tamil tigers are , typically , social and economic grievances like actual or perceived discrimination , and government failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately . colombo – sri lanka has deservedly praised for the progress it has made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 .
very few people in the vatican – indeed , in large part – had any real knowledge in these days of the vast industrial might of the united states . but any condemnation by pius ’s era of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as by the support of hitler ’s wartime efforts . the pope believed that it could either condemn both totalitarian powers , or condemn neither . and nazism condemnation could have been consistently misinterpreted as an assault not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . the western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in the great military struggle .
i am confident that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles that both petroleum and the internal combustion engine played in the twentieth century . networked , its effects , and its advantages multiply , and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even the one closed-off room to appear anywhere , the resulting losses extend to the whole net . by its nature , the data are relatively easy to bear in physical constraints . data travel instantaneously worldwide are indifferent to national boundaries .
governments in both countries focused on their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . because both india and china raised trade substantially , both are viewed as globalizers by the world bank ’s criterion . but , as their experiences reveal , along with experiences in many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam , deep trade liberalization hardly seems to be the factor fueling higher growth and broadening trade early on . in the meantime , severe trade reform did not begin until 1991-93 . it is a good thing to view the world bank playing on this straightforward reality .
i was saying that i did , but that it was in longhand . i sensed that the request was a trial – one that i had been ready to take , because i carried my maps with me in forward air-control airplanes – for me . i felt the prodigious , restless energy that i had suspected of not turning off when it began to recount my observations soon after starting to recount my observations , he took me to a map of vietnam , and asked me to locate the “ devastation ” areas . i said that i did , but that it was in longhand . he appeared profoundly engaged , but made no comments , asking me only if i had anything in writing .
in west africa , for example , private companies like ignitia extend the accuracy and accuracy of sms alerts to distant farmers . in mongolia , rural herders receive information on disease outbreaks in order to help them maintain their livestock ’ health . at present , these kinds of innovations are not featured in most hunger-alleviation strategies . in west africa , for example , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of sms alerts to distant farmers . but that is changing slowly , particularly as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , with apps designed to collect and share agricultural information become increasingly accessible .
brussels – as the world bank ’s financial elite converges in washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not get away with yet another round of call for a reversal of globalization . to be sure , efforts to grasp the current slowdown have taken place . but the premise is simplistic , at best . faltering trade is supposed to be the adverse trend . the problem lies in the lack of an understanding of what has been driving up trade growth in recent decades .
in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluations became the norm for the world ’s major exporters , first the u.s. , then japan , and now europe . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluations became the norm for the world ’s major exporters – first the u.s. , then japan , and now europe . if china joins this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and the world ’s financial markets would be subject to yet another source of severe instability . that is all the more important in the disorderly qe climate , where china ’s role as the world ’s currency anchor may take on even greater prominence than it did in the late 1990s . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation of the global currency war .
at the same time , policymakers and prominent economists must become far more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , more protections should be given for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers . prolonging the current expansion will require great care . the us needs a well-focused approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers , particularly in congress , need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risks of market accidents , while doing more to encourage growth . and , though fiscal policymakers may have been more responsive , starting from an standpoint of relatively high deficits and debt .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ “ surveillance , ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on each country ’s own economic policies , both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these periodic checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and preserve economic stability . nonetheless , the increasingly complicated policy challenges of the globalized economy are demanding a fresh look at that process . this is one of the most significant reforms to the fund ’s job in the last 30 years since the surveillance process was conceived . this is one of the most important reforms to the fund ’s job over the last 30 years since the surveillance process was conceived .
first , a debt conference is needed , with the creditors of southern european governments , as well as the banks forging a portion of greece ’s debts . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial help that would not be necessary for long , because a new currency ’s devaluation would quickly restore competitiveness . second , eurozone members , whose route to regaining competitiveness via price and wage reductions is far too long and grueling , and whose societies risk falling prey to the necessary imposition of austerity , must be a temporarily exits of a monetary union . the creditors relinquishing some of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost , the ecb , which has now largely replaced private lenders . there are four measures to accomplish this .
this matters , because ukraine has only partly fulfilled the imf agreements that it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . finally , the eu should insist that the ukrainian authorities halt all of the politically motivated criminal cases , freeing up those who are incarcerated on political crimes . such three steps would not resolve all of ukraine ’s difficulties in ukraine ’s relationship with the eu . selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s reputation . steps in that direction would have greatly improved ukraine ’s relations with the eu and american governments .
for many of the american security establishment ’s members , putin has ’s apparent influence over trump represents an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union was on the brink of the cold war . yet trump ’s ardor ( and his desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and again in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík in reykjavík in 1986 . instead , trump ’s ’s actions simply look like more kowtowing , raising the hackles of other american leaders . arguing that his drive to improve relations with russia is in america ’s national interest , trump , soon after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near term . putin has just been reciprocated with an invitation to trump .
washington , dc – this month , europe ’s citizens will head to the polls to elect 751 % of the european parliament ’s vote to represent the country ’s 507 million people . nonetheless , the participation rate over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in american congressional elections . the way the us election campaign unfolded marks a small but momentous step in the making of the first supranational political space in europe ’s – indeed , the world ’s – history . given europe ’s perceived remoteness , and its widespread frustrations with europe ’s chancellorship , the eu ’s level of participation , and the move toward supranational politics , is notable . to be sure , the european parliament elections brought a smaller share of voters to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 .
but it is only this highly personalized form of policy , which saudi royals accepted with defecting from al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , that policy , even with its attendant risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . nonetheless , the bomb has not been encased in the metal , and terrorist charges have been the only individual killing . the highly personalized politics forms part of what might be called saudi arabia a theater of state that keeps the royals firmly in power . to the outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as when the fbi ’s chief personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants in the garden party .
yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the crude and tumble of israeli politics . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he was forced to abandon the government in 1974 during the yom kippur war . it was said of prime minister levi eshkol that spoke out seven languages , all of them in yeiddish . it was said of prime minister levi eshkol that spoke seven languages , all of them in yeiddish . perhaps eban was overly urbane , too much of the scholar and gentlemen ’s scholar and gentlemen ’s job to make it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to the pinter of a greasy pole .
as a result , southern europe adopted an economic configuration in which its wages , prices , and levels of productivity , made a lot of sense only so long as it spent € 13 on each of every € 12 that it earned , with northern european funding a missing europe . northern european europeans , meanwhile , adopted wage and productivity levels that made a lot of sense only as long as it spent less than one european for every euro it earned . but whether europe as a whole avoids losing decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance remains dependent on whether southern european governments can rebuild their competitiveness fast enough . the process , by which southern europe became uncompetitive at the former , has been driven by market price signals – such signals are made for entrepreneurs , and by how entrepreneurs are ’ ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms . northern european europeans , meanwhile , accepted wage and productivity levels that made sense only as long as it spent less than one european for every euro that it earned .
after all , competition between america and china extends far beyond trade . though america maintains its military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been quietly catching up , leading to bipartisan support within the us for a more confrontational approach . a global economic downturn is just the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risks , including the potential no-deal brexit and the populist gains of the european parliament election in may . to be sure , while trump does n’t spare his allies , his primary goal remains china . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression .
a common theme that emerges from so-called place-based studies , such as regionally directed employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the capital-intensive nature of achievement . competitions between states and localities to attract big employers with taxation and other subsidies are working particularly badly . few policies are working out a shelf , and reliably , across a broad range of settings . recent high-profile foxconn deals and amazon.com , in wisconsin and new york times , have been blown up . they can be responded , and periodically revised , only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms .
if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely to be if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them , too . shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing after decades of spectacular expansion – faces china ’s daunting task to manage a soft economic landing . if china performs on a sustained , comprehensive economic-growth drive , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of the financial crisis , and completing its shift to a consumption-led , high-income economy with a large and affluent middle class . naysayers abound , but never mind them .
london – as governments across western europe started to bailing out their banks and their depositors , east europeans were watching nervously unsure of what the global financial storm would mean for them . several more could have done so over the next month , unless frozen credit markets thaw . now that the storm has hit , fragile european solidarity bonds are being put to the test . two countries – hungary and ukraine – have already called for large support packages . if the situation continues until the end of the year that can not be ruled out , many more countries could experience severe banking crises .
this is an important distinction , because quantity determines users , whereas quality determines the industry . in particular , some health practitioners argue that the specific components of processed foods – particularly sugar – are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . but the larger question for health professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . sugar , for example , is consistently a ingredient of the top score on the yale food dependency scale , which measures humans ’s food cravings . the processed food industry claims that you need sugar to live .
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative delivered nearly two billion polio vaccine doses to 575 million children in 94 african countries . every detail , from bicycles and boats necessary to deliver the vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , refrigerators , and cooling boxes needed to keep a vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to power them were counted and budgeted . globally , international donors and the un agencies have been working closely with national governments , todd the precise needs of the massive polio immunization campaigns , which aim to reach hundreds of millions of children . a tightly coordinated effort , amongst the private sector and public-sector partners to deliver the oral polio vaccine to each child under the age of five , has been the key to success . in each country , partner institutions – including the world health organization ’s health minister , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations – have been working together and carefully projected every immunization campaign .
with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it has become easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . in 2016 , for example , the south and east eu member states , which rely on chinese investment in chinese investment , have managed to waters off the joint eu declaration on china ’s territorial encroachments on the south china sea . this has long been russia ’s strategy , and both china and the us are gaining acceptance as well . still , one wonders whether the eu has been able to set up the united front . in an increasingly deal-based world , a new g6 may offer a defense of a rules-based system .
indeed , it is the key issue in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election in the wake of president obasanjo ’s high minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . yet the headwinds of globalization were supposed to blow up the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . in fact , it is the key issue in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election in the wake of president obasanjo ’s high minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems . evict a state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and both economic efficiency and governance are likely to improve .
but there are striking parallels between america today ’s founding years and europe ’s continuing political and economic crisis . in fact , the creation of the american-led constitution and the birth of the american people offer reasons to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe may one day be resolved . florence – europeans keen to revive the continent ’s unification process – recently turned their attention to the founders of the united states . yet many , however , reject america ’s precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those encountered then . florence – europeans , eager to revive the continent ’s unification process , recently turned their attention to the founders of the united states . others , accepting that federalist principles may well be comfortable addressing the problems of europe ’s common market , despair that the “ european people ” ” ” who might bring about this new political edifice are absent .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have left no doubt spooked by the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has shown himself to be in charge , even preening for photos of tight leather outfit with its favorite motorcycle . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin .
by 651 , almost all of the major urban centers in persia were brought under arab control , adding momentum to the process . by 651 , nearly all of persia ’s major urban centers were under arab control , adding momentum to that process . the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to khorasan ’s border province , and the arabization of persia began , with persians taking arab names and a converting to islam . the effort by various forces seeking to dominate or reestablish a caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s ’s history . the mass-conversion into islam among persians marked the first step toward establishing the first caliphate , the political-religious state comprising all muslims .
in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 ” scenario ” in russia during the coming years : as oil prices that plummeted to $ 40 a barrel , they recovered and overran the $ 70-/barrel period , russia will return to the stagflation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . now , all of these short-run factors have been depleted , with the brezhnev-like era of economic stagnation beginning . the russian government ’s unwillingness to fight corruption and boost the country ’s legal institutions reflects the perverse – yet stable – political equilibrium . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 ” scenario ” in russia during the coming years : as oil prices that had plummeted to $ 40 a barrel , they recovered and outpaced $ 70-/barrel growth , russia would return to the stagflation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . russia ’s political elites understood that the economy is capable of at least 5-6 % annual gdp growth .
still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his “ blackrock ” colleagues , have proposed an “ standing emergency ” fiscal facility ” – ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that would enable the central bank to run large fiscal deficits in case of a deep recession . left-wing proponents of the so-called modern monetary theory argue that larger permanent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , because there is no risk of runaway inflation . in the united kingdom , following this logic , labour party parties have proposed an open-door “ people like qe , ” whereby a central bank would print money to finance direct fiscal transfers to households – rather than to bankers and investors . despite differences in terminology , all of these proposals are variants of the same idea : large , debt-fueled fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand in case of the next slump . still others , including mainstream fed economists like adair turner , a former chair of the uk financial-services authority , have called for ¥ helicopter drops : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits .
there are plenty of uncertainties in both phases , but particularly during the epc that may last 3-7 years , depending on the project itself . most developing countries , i know , are spending too little money devising good projects . when the private sector does , transforming ideas in overwhelmingly bankable projects is often very hard hit , because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decision-making or action . so , suppose that a toll roads project is being approved , a concession treaty is ready , and companies are offering it . the bidders need a blueprint for two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) , as well as a longer stage of operation when toll revenues are accumulated to recover incurred costs and expected returns .
besides , there is an obvious business rationale for prioritizing the green finance.investors and ratings agencies increasingly scrutinizing the investment portfolios of potentially “ stranded assets , ” such as oil and gas projects to become outdated as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . but we should not understate the power of financial pressure to effect change ; nor should we ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have not . moreover , many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans rather than previously anticipated , with financial portfolios relying heavily on such assets increasingly at risk of devaluation . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction commitments now , one might think that efforts to address climate change are losing out . yet to reach and hold all governments on board , a low-carbon transition must become inclusive .
in practice , this movement also motivates little more than fear of change . to defend “ family values , ” whatever it may mean , to say nothing . more recently , a group of parliamentarians ( quite large – 30 deputies ) have left the majority post-solidarity party , creating a new “ polish family ” party with the slogan that the ruling coalition holds up “ the services of brussels . ” but here those working in the former “ solidarity ” movement – for them a movement of community , rather than individual , movements for the public , rather than private freedom – form the new euro-antagonists bloc . the less agressive anti-europeanism originates with the tendencies that struggle for older values like honor and virtue .
the researchers there argue that in fragile , speculative industries ( and finance has certainly been in that category in recent years ) , it is hard for investors to monitor those managing their money . in fact , managers may require higher and higher rates of return during the upturn years . an alternative hypothesis that appears to fit the facts recently emerged from the paul woolley center for studies of the dysfunctionality of capital markets , at the london school of economics . that may be part of the story , but the competition between investment banks and the rest of the world appears to have collectively extravagantly been rewarded at the expense of those customers . they may see short-term returns , but they are not quite understood by how those returns are generated .
likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank among the top 20 countries in terms of innovation , on average , fifth , and sixth on an innovation index , but just 28th and 29th on the un peace index . yet , on the global peace index , it ranks 88th out of 153 countries from 153 countries . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability are severe enough to produce an overall breakdown of laws and order severely impedes creativity and innovation . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , including the insead ’s global innovation index . conversely , bhutan ranks among the top 20 nations in the world ’s most peaceful nations , but does not even make it up for innovation indices .
germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger . but merkel continues to defends weber , and , with the exception of macron and dutch prime minister mark mark mark mark mark rutte , most eu leaders are reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . if the council succeeds in ruling out weber and its populist supporters , macron will maintain this as a success . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager , who is not from the epp ; but who , in a sense , is the liberal spitzenkandidat – whereas lengthening them for michel barnier , who is from the epp but not the spitzenkandidat .
annan has inspired the world with his diplomacy and management of poverty reduction and human rights , but the wars in iraq have divided the world , attracting the attention and financial resources away from crisis regions , as well as critical long-term problems like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water . with recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence coming to a head , there is an opportunity to turn the world on the most critical challenges facing our planet . on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become un secretary general , following kofi annan ’s 10 years tenure . recent attempts at influence in these countries through threats and sanctions , and at times of war , have gone bankrupt . aside from long-standing challenges to poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , somalia , myanmar , syria , sudan , syria , syria , syria , afghanistan , syria , syria , and others .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all in us trade policy during the 1930s has been greatly aggravated by the great depression . many complain that something similar , if less grand in scale , is occurring today . the gta ’s most recent report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist measures since november 2008 , with china as the most frequent targets . the gta ’s most recent report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist measures since november 2008 , with china as the most frequent targets . the gta ’s most recent report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist measures since november 2008 , with china as the most frequent targets .
such a change would make the eu ’s win-win situation , because it reduces the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and gives british grounds to reconsider their exit decisions with their heads kept high . when people enter the eu in order to earn higher wages , the available pie for the distribution gets larger ; but if they come for the welfare benefits , then the pie becomes smaller . host countries could assume responsibility for administering benefits like unemployment insurance , the sick pay , and the pensions they pay . such a change would generate the eu ’s win-win position , because it reduces the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and gives british grounds to reconsider their exit decisions with those heads held high . and countries of origin might continue to provide benefits unrelated to jobs , such as child allowances staying at home and services for migrants who are too old or ill to work when they arrive .
no alternative – and certainly not – the statusquo will work . the prize for the monetary union ’s ’s survival and , therefore , more community in the european project : the banking union , the fiscal union , the eu , and the political union . those opposed this because they fear common accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and the loss of national sovereignty will have to accept european re-nationalization and thus its exit from the world stage . what needs to be done has long been a clear understanding of what needs to be done . it has become commonplace knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that without a solidarity-based approach to existing debt and partial mutualization of new ones , europe can not be rescued .
for investors , the reform process may seem impossibly long and hesitant . but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has been exceptionally quick to achieve this . so the result of the months of debate may be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” the eu is not deprived of tools – the so-called “ “ structural funds ” – that fund investment in poorer regions – but has no strategy for using them . more bugs will need to be fixed , including new bugs found in their fixes .
its schools are funded by local communities and working within the national curriculum , designed by the parliament and the government . though educational opportunities and structures have been gradually diversified , the overarching shortcoming of much of europe ’s education system remains : students have too few choices , and teachers – if they are to remain in occupations – must adhere to severely compartzed pedagogy . other countries may find sweden , for example , a system that is worth studying . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as homogeneous a mass , where every student can be educated by the same pedagogical approach . but schools need to satisfy individual children ’s needs and capacity in ways that make learning stimulating adventures .
from this perspective , they are in and out of the prison system , with little chance of ever gaining the legal jobs that enable them to escape from poverty . to break the cycle of poverty , a country needs to invest in its children ’s future , rather than incarcerate 2.3 million people per year , many for nonviolent crimes that are signs of poverty . drug children often become drug users on their own ; they , too , frequently end up in jail or suffer violence or premature deaths . what is mad about this is that america has missed an obvious tipping point and missed it for the last 40 years . their children grow up with no parent at home – and with no hope and support .
in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill gaps have not become a central problem , owing to a reasonably open-ended immigration policy that has enabled the country to benefit from the talents of colombia , among other countries , that have not kept up with it . the comparison between the two approaches is obvious . colombia ’s policymakers were hoping that , if enacted by the best-practice legislation and regulation adopted , somebody will emerge . and , if they do not , they may still bask in the international accolades that they are receiving from foreign entities . the nonhousing booms that have arisen have helped not only absorb the labor force left in rural areas , but also achieving spectacular declines in inequality .
at the global level , over-leveraged countries – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend more , consume , and import less . moreover , there is now massive public-sector re-leveraging in advanced economies , with enormous budget deficits and public-debt accumulation fueled by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the enormous cost of socializing the financial system as a whole . recovering from global aggregate demand , therefore , will prove weak , putting downward pressure on global growth far lower . at best , the us is facing a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in the advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments begins to feed through to consume and investment . but over-saving countries from china , emerging economies , germany , and japan are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries .
earlier demands for tougher regulation came to nothing , owing to the financial sector ’s opposition to the financial sector . the current crisis , the fall of wall street , is back to neo-liberalism ’s neo-liberalism . so far , a significant part of the problem has been eu countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate . the international community is now charged with thinking seriously about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar disaster in the future . the global dimension of this crisis also has a positive side .
it is because of the infinite importance of this grand debate that the state should strive to be a neutral one . after all , when a state ostentatiously takes sides in such a conversation , it can not avoid denigrated the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens . unlike in the case of the french tradition ’s militant liberalism , this neutralist philosophy strives to avoid either side in the ongoing culture war from using the nation-state ’s coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls . unlike in the case of the french tradition ’s militant liberalism , this neutralist philosophy strives for preventing either side from going along with the continuing culture war from using the nation-state , the coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls . after all , when a state ostentatiously takes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrating the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . whereas international cooperation on regulatory reform is hard to accomplish on a piecemeal basis , it can be attainable in a grand bargain that rearranges the entire financial order . following the path of least opposition will lead to a gradual disintegration of the international financial system . the former , represented by the united states , broke down ; the latter , represented by china , is on the wane . a new multilateral system , based on its sounder principles , must be devised .
today , however , the advantages that are derived from its accomplishments are being jeopardized , owing to a set of stunning courtroom defeats . with the competition case against the software giant microsoft ostensibly in the offing , commissioner monti will need to rediscover his own footing fast . in an era of just a few weeks , he championed important victories that limit state aid to entrepreneurship , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . mario monti , the european union ’s eu commissioner on foreign policy , is often on the spotlight , usually in a popular acclaim . within a period of just a couple of weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private parties are allowed to appeal decision-making ) voided three of monti ’s decisions , which rejects corporate mergers .
droughts and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and ample resources , can be turned away . but time and again , humanitarian relief in africa came at a short pace , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980 ’s . worse still , these tragedies have been avoidable ; we know that these crises are coming . then , as now today , food insecurity has been predicated long before the first round of hunger levels became felt . droughts and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and ample resources , can be turned away .
here the us needs europeans ’ help , and it makes little sense to call this “ uni-polar ” world , either . on this bottom board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . the bottom chessboard involves transnational relationships that cross borders beyond governments ’ control , everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to supranational terrorism . on this bottom board , the degree to which close civilian cooperation affects a country ’s attractiveness or soft power . here the us needs europeans ’ assistance , and it makes little sense to call this uni-polar world , either .
making matters worse , they have both the motive and the opportunity to grow at an even larger rate . translation : an orderly resolution of global megabanks ’ global megabanks is an illusion . as long as we enable cross-border banks at or near or near their current level , our political leaders will not be able to tolerate their failures . and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” ” they can borrow more cheaply than would otherwise be the case . this form of government support amounts to a huge implicit subsidy to the big banks .
fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressure . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a grievance at the country ’s human rights commission , calling for the inquiry into the big fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility to generate climate change . and , by raising costs for extracting fossil-fuel subsidies , it would contribute to an eventual phase-out of an already-non-existent sector that has no place in the climate-secure world . dutch group urgenda and close to 900 co-plaintiffs successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to enact tougher climate policies . fortunately , the world will not need to wait for moral suasion to carry the day .
for example , just a couple of years ago , chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system that connects its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its global customer network . as a result , the national semiconductor industry has seen its delivery cycle to buyers of buyers from four weeks to just one week , with the distribution costs cut from 2.9 % of sales to just 1.2 % of retail sales . several steps are needed to encourage massive internet use in these other locales : * telecom liberalization , including the entry of new private-sector service providers , is crucial to lowering costs and disseminating benefits . it has decided to out-source this operations to the federal express , which uses a sophisticated on-line system for managing global deliveries and selling .
if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this non-interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money running up to now , nominal demand will undoubtedly grow , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . so far , the choice for so-called “ helicopter money ” is becoming more hotly debated . it is often argued that reining in fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keep interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to generate excessive inflation . but the debate over it is riddled with confusions . it is so often argued that excessively leveraged fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keep interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to generate excessive inflation .
geneva – when lehman brothers proclaimed bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became unclear who owed what to whom , unable to service their debts , and who would go down next . in hindsight , complacency in the run-up to the run-up to the crisis became starkly unconscionable . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s turned into yet another great depression . the result was that the interbank lending markets had been frozen , wall street panicked , and companies went under way , not only in the united states but around the world . and yet little has since been reversed .
for some , this is a cause for ambivalence , and it is important to say the least . nonetheless , they have agreed that in a year or two , a commission will grant various options and models to safeguard germany ’s parliament ’s right , while offering assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . coalition partners disagree over how urgent it is to sort out this issue . to some extent , this is a cause for ambivalence . should the spd vote on a coalition agreement in early december block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but not altogether outside the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe , a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . indeed , every new gm crop variety needs to satisfy rigorous health , ecological , and efficacy standards . the world health organization has also endorsed the evidence that “ no impacts on human health ” have been shown , owing to consumption of such foods . a large part of the problem lies with a tiny team of anti-gm activists who object to technologies on “ moral ” grounds . the world health organization has also endorsed the evidence that there has been no impacts on human health due to such foods .
when coverage is incomplete , one can expect to be regulated to complain that they were placed at a competitive disadvantage . perhaps regulators will find it necessary to turn to the bankruptcy legislation to correct the problem . that solution will be incomplete , but , because not all derivatives traders are regulated by financial institutions , and because many creditors would find ways to circumvent the contract and requirement . regulators ’ ’ ’ call for voluntary action will not amount to much , as long as it is simply a request to the derivatives industry to take action against its own financial interests . regulators may well need to turn to the bankruptcy legislation to correct the problem .
the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who used “ words , ” signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection toward the government ’s ” ” ” ” might have been inadequate or , in some respects , unsuited to the country under foreign rule . in other words , no amount of free speech for indians , either . sedition was thus explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among his prominent victims , albeit far from his last one . britain came to a conclusion , in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ “ sedition law ” is adequate to a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and faith can be insufficient , or , in some respects , unsuited to the country under foreign rule . but , even that was inadequate for britain ’s leaders , who tightened legislation further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition legislation in england .
seoul – after decades of active involvement in the international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has started to resemble a revisionist power seeking to establish a new global order . it is now using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . seoul – china , already the world ’s largest , producer , and the international-reserve-asset holder – is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( as measured by purchasing power parity ) this year . last month , china and the 20 other asian countries signed the “ memorandum of understanding ” to establish the new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) . indeed , the country ’s heyday of deng xiaoping ’s injunction to hide brightness and cherish obscurity long .
these are , by all reasonable standards , notable uk-led accomplishments . the advent of the global climate agreement promises not only to preserve the eu , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . new free-trade agreements empower european economies to access major markets worldwide . advances in the single market have helped to spur competitiveness . and eu enlargement has boosted europe ’s security substantially . achieving the paris climate agreement promises not only to preserve the eu , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability .
a special report on semiconductors – vital to american national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s office of advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answers . the message , written by a nonpartisan team of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , suggested that america is working with its allies to enforce international law , pressure on china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and intensify export controls and inward investment restrictions . a pcast report recommends that america adopts similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits on the basis of china ’s behavior . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , with some having already tightened security on the flow of us semiconductor ip to china and the acquisition of us semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the us proposed bipartisan legislation to expand america ’s foreign investment committee ’s jurisdiction ( which reviews the mergers and acquisitions of domestic us companies by foreign entities ) to a broader set of investment – including chinese venture capital and private-equity investment in american startups – that meets this recommendation .
four decades ago , countries not only endured opec ’s immediate economic impact ; they leveraged the potential of the resultant oil shortages to spur innovation . our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage by our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . business-led innovations and market-based solutions may drive a decisive global shift away from crippling fossil-fuel dependency toward more efficient renewable-energy systems . swift and resolute action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles , which require little or no use of fossil fuels , and increase the share of renewables in electricity delivery could ensure that the substantially hotter and less convenient world of the 2050 ipcc warns against does n’t materialize . a rocky mountain institute of reinventing fire analysis shows that such a future is achievable , offering market-driven strategies for powering a powering american economy of 158 % larger in 2050 – without over-dependence on oil , coal , or nuclear energy .
but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities , and it served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of the nuclear reactors in warsaw . luckily , two missed targets , and israel was able to intercept the third . but what an international response , if any , would have begun had the cache been highly enriched ? the captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; the international inspectors removed all of the sensitive materials from iraq after the 1991 gulf war ( which is why it was absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor .
labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most major economies . moreover , the september surge in oil prices – which has raised fears of yet another negative growth shock – has since receded . though dollar appreciation has taken some upward pressure from non-us economies , which depend on exports or foreign capital , it has heightened the risk of an open currency war . at the same time , not all indicators are grim . america ’s economy reflects this dichotomy .
i first met steve jobs back in 1979 , or in the 1980 ’s , at the personal computer forum of ben rosen . in the personal-computing business , which migrated from bulky apple ii to a sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) , steve jobs were the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . it inspired widespread public enthusiasm about the quality of its goods , as well as its personal charisma . ( others became “ business ” leaders , but only steve jobs became someone familiar and admired by a million – including the romanian waiter in the brazilian airfields of which i sit now . ) for some reason , this was held at playboy ’s resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – america ’s ’s annual real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first three quarters of this year is impressive , owing to its 3 % average growth rate in 2018 ( as measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . with the end of the great recession , from 2011 to 2017 , america ’s economy was growing at an average annual rate of just 2.1 % , on average . and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . so , which accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in open-list systems , a 50 % quota should be adopted in open-list systems . but if these countries are replaced with closed lists of closed lists , the percent of women who are elected should , all others remain equal , rising to about 10 % . there is no way to predict the accuracy of the impact of increased quota percentages on open-list systems that currently have an effective quota legislation . in closed-list systems , the candidate lists should be zippered : male , male , female , female ( or vice versa ) . the impact would be greatest ( stemming from the roughly 20 % trump rate in the open-list systems that currently have an effective quota legislation .
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has attempted to block an investigation into his 2016 warsaw campaign ’s dealings with russia . moreover , trump has sought to roll back us government contracts to favored firms , or to distance himself from those that dislikes – such as amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post . likewise , he flouted a constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments – money , or personal benefit from foreign governments that do business , sometimes extravagant shares , at their different hotels and golf clubs , and have found additional ways to monetize the us presidency . frustrated , for example , that the us congress denied him all of the funding it wanted for its phantasmagorical wall along its border with mexico city , it simply plucked the funds out of the us defense department .
when debt becomes unsustainable , a few possible bargaining outcomes exist . sometimes , debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps stretched out over the longer term , thus giving the borrower country time to regain a capacity to pay for it . when debt becomes unsustainable , several potential bargaining outcomes are in place . argentina defaulted on its official debt in 2001 , when it defaulted on its official debt . at times , creditors agree to exchange old bonds for the new ones , which have either lower face value or lower interest payments .
though ring prophylaxis may work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in parts of the world in which influenza pandemics begins , the probability of success approaches zero . responses in turkey , where as many as 50 potential cases have emerged in eastern ukraine , are instructive in many parts of the country . nonetheless , a strategy can be “ “ cost-effective ” ” ” only when feasible . the us response in turkey , where as many as 50 might have shown in eastern ukraine , is instructive . while ring prophylaxis may have worked in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich in parts of the world where influenza pandemics starts , the probability of success approaches zero .
moreover , china sits at about roughly $ 3.3 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves – much of it in us dollars , but also in other major currencies – owing to its large trade surplus with the us in recent decades . it is helping to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment deficits ( many of its recipients enjoy large budget deficits , which fall short of domestic investment ) . it remains the vital assembly center of the global supply chain for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cellular telephony , that enable a lower price for the world ’s us-american consumer goods . deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvement in human history , and , with it , the emergence of a large and growing middle class . that has made china a crucial trade partner to the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , besides marketing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics .
in the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plants into a threatening gesture , at the same time that radical serbian nationalists have called for attacks to release their radioactive contents . history offers little guidance to whether warring countries would avoid damaging their nuclear sites . with the exceptions of the 1990 ’s balkan conflicts , wars have not been fought against or within countries with nuclear reactors . even the ukrainians born after 1986 understand what the chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by combat might look like . for ukraine , the angst is real .
over the past two years , or at the very least , saudi arabia has made it starkly clear that it would not easily surrender its market share to everyone . it has pursued a campaign to recapture its former position not only in crude terms , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . it has been pursuing a campaign to recover its former position not only in crude terms , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , aided by a surge in manufacturing , aimed at pushing out the weaker competitors . as soon as its doors to asia were opened , however , russian companies seized on an opportunity to enter india ’s downstream markets and indonesia – the two countries that are critical of the saudis ’ own strategies .
indeed , attaining , prospering , and moving all refer to experiential rewards rather than to money . this is the type of economy that i hope that china will develop . the participants in such a good economy would range from a society ’s grassroots to the most advantaged . history suggests that it would be one of the entrepreneurial peoples ( alert to unnoticed opportunities and exercising an initiative to try new things ) , as well as innovative people ( imagine new things , develop new concepts in business products and methods , and marketing them to their potential ) . what kind of economy would be able to offer that good life ?
as a recent paper in the financial times emphasizes , in two areas , notoriously immune from productivity increases , education , and health care , technology is already driving down demand for the skilled workforce . yet , nowadays , technological breakthroughs are eating out of better jobs , too . a wide range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and incorruptible human nature may be the next casualty of technological change . as a recent article in the financial times highlights , in two areas notoriously immune from productivity increases , education , and health care , technology is already reducing the demand for the skilled workforce . yet , while technological breakthroughs are now eating away superior jobs , too .
last november , a roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary . in august , gunmen invaded the home of the impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , had shot her to death and injured her 13-year-old daughter . in august , gunmen invaded the home of the impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , who had shot her to death and injured her 13-year-old daughter . the house had been burned down to earth , so it was time for the rest of the country . in april , killers gunned down the roma factory workers as they walked to their jobs .
the information revolution transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . the processes of twenty-first-century globalization are all too abrupt , unpredictable , and uncontrollable to rely on static measures such as tariffs . with american workers already competing against robots at home , and against low-wage workers abroad , disruption of imports will only create more “ robotic ” jobs . a more rational approach would embrace twenty-first-century realities . trump should be protecting individual workers , rather than individual jobs .
but hitler ’s hold over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s ’s ’s ’s hold on power over iran . iran ’s recent municipal elections have been humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . it probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is his latter-day hitler , and it is today ’s iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? iran ’s results in iran ’s recent municipal elections have been humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany .
this means that , as long as european electorates insist on retaining their sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared accountability will become a pipe dream . but this requires a rich reservoir of thought , rather than a unified approach . the final principle is congruity , ensuring that decision-makers are held accountable for outcomes in their decision-making . a second principle is the subsidiarity that holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this means that local and regional preferences are viewed alongside eurozone-wide harmonization effects of fiscal and economic policymaking .
as these policies fail , global financial markets reacting negatively , adding uncertainty to the global economy , with little relief in sight because america is entering an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected a political coalition of two major powers : superb and evangelical christians . the super-rich had one over-riding goal in joining bush ’s coalition : tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the wealthiest households . the bush team believed that they would , in the end , balance the tax cuts for the wealthy with cuts in government spending ; but they had never explained this to the public . evangelicals were brought about by the so-called “ family values , ” ” ” ” ” which meant opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of an active government promotion of religious activities , including through direct payments of religious groups to provide locally and internationally .
public infrastructure investment in infrastructure ( like the massive expansion of the european railroad network ) , together with climate safety and green technologies , will also be necessary . to bolster purchasing power and spur consumption , low - and middle-income tax cuts – and middle-income households – are essential . to be sure , the eu ’s member states should establish a concrete form that such economic stabilization programs assume for themselves . indeed , some large eu countries are on the edge of falling into recession . japan in the early 1990s waited too long to act and missing out on the right opportunities to launch countermeasures , a fact that japan still has not recovered from its prolonged stagnation .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , the investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will total at least $ 150 trillion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to the strategic natural resources of emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well positioned to play a key role in renewables . for europe , africa has ’s economic potential to remain far from being tapped . spending by households and firms , which is estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , a reflection of 3.5 % annual gdp growth . at the same time , africa is home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well positioned to play a key role in renewables .
despite his years in office , medvedev still knows more to his fancy ties and the expensive watches than to his executive action . yet , despite his years in office , medvedev still knows more about his fancy ties and the expensive watches than to his executive action . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s hold on power , ivanov passed an end , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist ” chief botanist overseeing environmental and transport . a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . yet ivanov is already far taller than putin , who , at any rate , achieved only the rank of the colonel .
cambridge : government programs to subsidize pensioners run into trouble in any country because of rising life expectancy and a rising retirement ratio to taxpayers . the problem will worsen in the years ahead , because the adverse demographic trend raises the fiscal burden of unfunded pension and health-care financing system . here ’s how america ’s system operates : through legislation , a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to financing the retiree benefits . the problem will worsen in the years ahead , because the adverse demographic trend raises the fiscal burden of unfunded pension and health-care financing system . while options at that time will be different from those of the choices facing other governments , the policies needed to avoid the american crisis are pertinent for other countries that confront populations aging .
one reason for this is that corruption scandals provided an opportunity for investors to view brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in activism . more recently , he criticized bolivian president evo morales ’ threats to usurp foreign assets for his failure in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the commonsense necessary from someone who governs ” in the past . lula remains popular with brazilians , owing to his populist rhetoric showing real sympathy for the less affluent , and with foreign investors because he has always tempered his radicalism in order to accommodate economic reality . indeed , while scandals have rattled the government , lula has been overwhelmingly reelected in the last year , with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market . newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in recent scandals , helping to demonize brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is stable enough to withstand open critiques .
the two organization of american states ’ electoral observation missions , which himself invited , and whose terms he endorsed , then refused to certify the result . true , morales resigned when the military told him , and , after agreeing to the protesters ’ demands for a new vote , the military did not take power . the bolivian military was arrested by no one , but by any measure . the constitutional court that allowed morales to run , viewed through the presidential succession process ; timely elections were promised ; and the military did not take power . but the current constitutional provisions were subsequently followed .
and they resent – to the point of mobilizing in the streets – any semblance that a “ clique ” at the very top is barring its course . this is the sort of free democratic spirit that operates outside the convention that elections determine the government . it is fueled enormously by social media ( in itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . it is not always consistent or rational ; it is just about it . and it moves very quickly in precipitating crises .
when chinese-style capitalism met with american-style capitalism , with few safety valves , this gave rise to an explosive mix . the current crisis demonstrates how far we came from this model . countries were obliged to commit only limited trade liberalization , with ample exceptions to socially sensitive industries ( agricultural , textiles , service industries ) . this left them free to construct their own versions of national capitalism as long as they obeyed a couple of straightforward international rules . in particular , financial globalization played havoc on old rules .
for decades , both america and saudi arabia have had a balance of asymmetry , in which the us depended on them as a swing producer of oil and depended on the us for its ultimate military security . so , even with america having no other interests in the middle east like israel or nuclear non-proliferation , a balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to open up to american military spending , which some us experts estimate running at $ 50 billion a year to protect its oil routes in the region . at the same time , america ’s ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . you and may depend on one another ; but if i depend less on you than you do on me on me , my bargaining power has been increased . power arises from the asymmetries of interdependence in the us .
european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among the eu ’s member states over brexit , and questions whether “ hungarians ” and poles want precisely the same thing as germans and germans do . at the national level , the lack of any historical vision among today ’s current generations of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose needed to force eu citizens to feel themselves as part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities . indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism represents a significant reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . at the national level , the lack of any political will has resulted in the craven use of referenda , like french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing the european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ eu-ukraine association vote last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , eu voters have indicated “ no ” outcomes that they can be blamed , particularly in the uk , on national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for domestic problems .
back in the 1970 ’s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high levels of employment and substantial wage growth . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high levels of employment and substantial wage growth . nowadays , the equivalent of the collapse has been of the “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which the “ new labour ” embrace a powerful role for markets , particularly for the largely deregulated financial markets . that model was based politically on creating consensus and economically on keynesian demand management . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high levels of employment and substantial wage growth .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . palestine ’s religious landmarks are attracting rising numbers of religious tourists from around the world annually .
they know that their cities are also vulnerable to urban violence , to the extent that they share the pockets of social inequality , including the marginalized and the disenfranchised young . as french cities have been burned , other countries have been extremely severe in judging france . embassies have published warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; the television news program has shown hours of images of burning cars . mayors across europe , however , have reacted with more moderately , feeling , and show solidarity with the plight of their french peers . other countries ’ governments , it seems , have sought to distance themselves from the problem , fearing the contagion that they know is likely to spread .
to be sure , use intensity has collapsed for some commodities , like gold and nuclear power ; but , for others , like aluminum and coal , it has risen since 2000 , or since is the case for copper and oil , declines have slowed markedly or stalled at very high levels . and rapid economic growth , which china ’s leaders must sustain , in order to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty , thereby preventing a crisis of legitimacy – a position that places a floor beneath global food , energy , and mineral prices . as long as china ’s per capita commodity demand grows at a higher rate than global supply , prices will continue to rise . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is projected to grow at no more than 2 % annually in the real world . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the quantity of commodities that it consumes to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be larger this year than it did last year .
a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy as a whole . in the automobile industry , default exceeds $ 3 trillion , leading to the collapse of transportation services , owing to shortages of spare parts . in the automobile industry , default exceeds $ 3 trillion , leading to the collapse of transportation services , owing to shortages of spare parts . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 trillion , leading to a substantial shortage of staple goods . earlier this year , he was diagnosed with cancer , and forced to launch the social-media campaign to locate the drugs that his treatment required .
to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . likewise , whereas egypt is at the center of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also plans to reclaim an even more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and throughout the region as a whole . the “ middle empire ” of the middle east ” will no longer remain a bed giant . to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners by a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . will it need to get the bomb , too ?
if “ constitutionalized , ” they simply implant the notion that the us constitution amounts to an aspiration rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . the desire to restrict or shield some forms of free-market activity may be understandable , especially in countries like poland , where the free market remains an unknowable animal . but , in an era in which many social fields such as education , health care , and social services are needed fast and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its job offers the only plausible avenue for change . state-owned healthcare insurance firms , the state ’s guaranteed retirement , etc. , are not only insecure and inefficient ; they are also at odds with the vision of political reform . these state controlled benefits have little to do with the justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters ; but everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption .
an indian diplomat in damascus just a couple of years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as large as those of then-president hafez al-assad were from bakchan . so , too , does the work of indian fashions , now striding across the world ’s runways . bollywood movies , which are bringing with his glitzy entertainment well beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer yet another example . bollywood ’s movies , which are bringing with his glitzy entertainment well beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer an additional example . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother taking an bus to dakar each month in order to watch bollywood movie – a lack of understanding of hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles – but can still pick up the playing field of movies and understanding the story , and people like her look to india ’s star in their eyes .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth president to visit india since reaching independence , arrives at a time when both the united states and india have arrived . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening up an awkward national-security gap , and the economy – the focus of his meetings with india as a whole – on security in afghanistan and pakistan . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be quite as bitter as they are between america and china ; on the contrary , they are thorny , and lack of resolution makes them more intractable . those relating to security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treasonous . for india , questions about obama ’s agenda are enormous and complex , and options for resolving them are exceedingly limited .
thanks to social media , the resultant discontent is now spreading more quickly than ever before , resulting in destructive politics . a combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily generate contagion as rising migration spreads political stress and instability elsewhere . moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have a winner-take-all network , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , left behind by less-privileged groups , classes , industries , and regions struggling to compete . according to the un high commission on refugees , up to 65 million refugees last year , compared to just 1.6 million in the 1960s . this may invite geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorates in a lose-lose scenario , like that already manifest in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing .
many have cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum in 2014 to take effect . but such a process is illegal under the spanish constitution of 1978 . that constitution has marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provides a framework for spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rule-of-law system . in short , spain is just one nation , indivisible . and , because it explicitly states , it is “ based on the indissoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with the sovereignty belonging to the spanish people .
since the financial crisis of 2008 , the us has squandered far too little power as an attempt to return to the era of rapid economic expansion . it is time to adopt the new framework of a realistic approach that fosters shared prosperity within today ’s global economy and tomorrow . the flawed assumption that the challenges of the post-crisis world were simply temporary has undercut policies that have only lackluster recoveries , while failing to address the key issues of high unemployment and rising inequality . the post-crisis era is ending . geneva ii – the world needs to stop looking backwards from it . the flawed assumption that the challenges of the post-crisis world were simply temporary underpin policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries while failing to address key issues like high unemployment and rising inequality .
obama has confined himself to promoting pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries . america ’s president is captive to the country ’s labor unions , buying a false narrative that trade with the poor countries increases the ranks of america ’s poor by driving down wages . indeed , it is notable that , whereas obama ’s ’s administration address in june 2010 , at least as a mention of doha , his address in january 2011 did not . these have been emphasized in a “ open ” letter to obama ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to which i organized and released , over signatures almost 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . obama has confined himself to promoting pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries .
if it does , the chance of an actual american default would be far greater than it is today . but this is no easy task , especially in the short run . in fact , some people are even predicting a period of a double-dip recession . in fact , these new worries are raising alarms bells in china . diversification away from dollar assets away from us dollar assets is a story .
one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decision-making , a bold move that could transform capital markets . last year , one out of every $ 6.6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states , a combined total of $ 6.6 trillion of $ 6.6 trillion was allocated to some form of sustainable investment , particularly in public equities . some 1,260 firms , managing a staggering $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are the united nations signatories of the un ’s us-centric investment center , ” ” ” ” signatories that recognize the environment , social , and governance ( esg ) factors , as well as the longer-term health and stability of corporations and markets , as critical for investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world bank ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decision-making , a bold move that could transform capital markets . berkeley – for investors worldwide – is increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to generate ecological and social benefits besides the market rates of returns .
the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment came to an end ; europe is on the brink of decline ; and a new set of powers are rising , bringing its own unique worldviews to global affairs . in a sense , this might seem like a very good thing . in international politics , perceptions matter – sometimes more so than reality – – sometimes exceed reality . more diversified perspectives might enrich the multilateral game , and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . but this multipolar dynamic also generates instability .
to its credit , the british egg industry accepted the situation , developing new , less crudely methods for keeping hens in check . in britain and some european countries , animal welfare became politically salient , with pressure on the parliamentary incumbents mounted . a ban on the eu ’s battery cages was ultimately enacted in 1999 , but , in order to ensure that producers would have plenty of time to phase out the facilities in which they had invested , its implementation was delayed until january 1 , 2012 . the european union established a animal-welfare council to investigate farm animal-welfare issues , with a committee recommending banning a battery cage alongside some additional forms of close confinement by portugal and calves . in britain and some european countries , animal welfare has become politically salient , with pressure from parliamentary representatives mounted .
but , at a time when each digital service becomes more and more personalized , why should social policies remain confined to twenty-first-century philosophy and solutions ? finally , the same accounts could serve as public-policymaking vehicles . more broadly , rather than helping people only when social risks materialize , public policymaking could encourage individuals throughout their working lives , by embracing a more efficient bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . that may sound utopian in some ways . early school-leavers , for example , could be endowed with points for later use in career training .
indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . the world bank ’s insistence that corruption can be viewed as a form of cancer , and that fighting it is synonymous with fighting poverty . yet corruption poses the one largest impediment to growth and development in many countries , particularly because it diverts resources from the poor . many cabinet minister , bank officer , and ngo ’s have lived through his blunt criticism , as did his effusive praise . it used to be that even reference to corruption in some official circles was deemed taboo .
but it is the status quo power with respect to the un system , and steadfastly opposes the security council ’s enlargement to date . in fact , the modest measures undertaken in response to changing the distribution of global power have been confined to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations – peace and security – remaining exclusive to a few countries ’ exclusive preserve . the g20 ’s emergence , for example , was improvisation , designed to defer genuine financial reform . it amounts to revisionist powers regarding the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . nor is china on the same page with the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform .
the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary basis ( such as ethnicity , race , or religion , for example ) is especially harmful in this respect . it can result in gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . rising levels of inequality of outcomes need not result in reduced intergenerational mobility . whether it will depend heavily on whether important instruments to promote equality of opportunity , principally in education and health care , are universally accessible . moreover , intergenerational mobility is the key indicator of equality of opportunity .
proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever before to tap into large pools of finance , not to mention the links and expertise that resulted from small investors . last may , the eureeca.com took crowdfunding concept further than it ever before to create the first , truly global crowd-investing marketplace offering equity in funded firms . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , a few explicitly targeted clean-tech areas . if used wisely , such platforms could take up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to ease the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy . other increasingly prominent trends , such as collaborative consumption , pay per utilization , and sharing , leasing models , could offer similarly powerful momentum to such efforts .
in the ensuing conflict , the refugees poured across borders into neighboring india into overcrowded camps , creating conditions that would inevitably spill over into cholera outbreaks . in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , proclaimed its independence from pakistan . as so many people lay dying , a pioneering physician , named dilip mahalanabis , took a chance in a desperately poor situation . bangladesh , for its part , knows that wartime cholera is all too well into its own hands . in 1971 , fighting back when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 , – the international earth day – marks one year since signing the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . yet its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s own energy policies . in 2016 , the record-setting hotyear on record , the average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the single most important step forward to date in the global fight against climate change . madrid – april 22 , 2017 , 2017 – marks just one year since signing the paris climate agreement to enter into force last november , and now has 195 signatories .
the atheistic nature of today ’s ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history , as well as its first civilization , which embraces the entire planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hyper-trophic pursuit of individual interest and individual responsibility combined to solve a crisis of global responsibility . even more succinctly could not today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability as a whole , and its future is precisely the logical result of the modern world ’s modern concept as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws formulated by the god-knows – “ what purpose ” – that is , a concept that does not ask , or seeks the deeper meaning of existence , and renounces any and metaphysics ? is there any sense in seeking to turn human minds to the heavens , when such a turn would merely aggravate conflict on earth among adherents of our diverse de-ities deities ? but how to resurrect in the human mind a shared attitude toward what lies above us if people everywhere feel the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? could humanity think only within the boundaries of what lies within its visions of its vision and is incapable of remembering what lies beyond , not it is the result of losing a metaphysical certitude for the loss of god ?
at the heart of this transformation comes from an energy transition , one that , though underway , lags , or has stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by power providers and major end-end users is critical , because it expands the affordable , reliable , clean-energy services of all people who need them . those are the decisions that will drivethe type of transformation that the world needs . those are the decisions that will drivethe transformation the world needs . they have cast aside the gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : tell us once one stages of coal , ending harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shifting taxation from income toward pollution .
new haven – central bankers around the world have been unable to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . martin čhák of the international monetary fund , reported in july 2007 that of the 47 central banks that found it to publicize the reports of financial stability ( figure ) , “ virtually all ” gave a “ positive ” global assessment of their domestic financial system , ” in its most recent report . and yet , though these central banks have failed in the aftermath of the crisis , they still should have played the leading role of forestalling the next crisis . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that , among the 47 central bank , 47 central banks have found to publicize the reports of financial stability ( figure ) , “ virtually all ” has given way to an aggregate appreciation of their domestic financial system , ” in its most recent report . that is the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam lake group [ http:///squamlakegroup.org/] , a think tank of 15 academic finance economists to whom i belong , reached in our recent paper , fixing the financial system .
sadly , in making that choice , the us president opted out of a classical american vision engraved around a statue of liberty in new york city harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem to begin , “ give me tired , the poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” and , even after his inauguration was declared , he proclaimed that he wants to “ resolve the daca issue with hearts and sympathy . ” yet , apparently , daca ’s beneficiaries carried out jobs away from their citizens , concluding that they needed the same hearts and compassion “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ” while vowing during the us presidential campaign to end daaca , he also acknowledged the moral case for upholding the daca issue with hearts and compassion . that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers and immeasurably boosted america .
trying to accomplish these high-value tasks , while paying a below-market wage wage is penny wise but the pound ’s folly . amlo ’s decision to lower public-sector salaries has already led many high-level officials to seek jobs elsewhere . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need adequate resources to win out of their hard battles . they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated efficiently and maximization of government revenues . those eligible for early retirement take it , rather than waiting for amlo to be slashed .
and the international atomic energy agency reports that global temperatures are currently on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 6.5-9.5 º fahrenheit ) above preindustrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists have identified as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . moreover , global co2 emissions have reached a record high in 2012 . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovations , creative coalitions among governments , private companies , and civil-society groups are to be established in three major areas . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs some help , and we need the most attention . the first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive down renewable-energy costs , at least for a decade to come .
in a display of official solidarity , the lights also went out at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from the opera home of sydney to the big pyramid at giza city , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , the new york-based empire construction , the city ’s great ben , paris eiffel tower , and the skyline of both hong kong and the las vegas union . at a stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , in march 27 , almost one billion people in over 120 countries demonstrated a desire to do something about global warming by turning their lights away at an hour . what ever could be ; earth hour is surely one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed . first , in 2007 , australia ’s local chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and its levels of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates exploded in recent years , to a point that there is barely a corner of the earth that the campaign has not touched . sao paulo , like well-intentioned gestures , is sure that earth hour is a hard hit .
yet britain joined the european community , not only the free-trade area that cameron now seems to want to do . in essence , britain ’s perspective was that the free-trade confederation of nation-states working on trade is just as much europe as the eu needs . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas was embraced only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others did so . yet the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics was never diminished , and was apparent in cameron ’s speech . indeed , in his own speech , cameron was unable to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice .
to be sure , the us coal industry has been helping billions of people to flee poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power plants have underpinning nearly 700 % of per capita income since 1990 . but human health is at greater risk in the countries that are burning more coal . in fact , research by the global commission on the economics and climate last year calculated that particulate matter alone has resulted in $ 1.23 million of premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economies – in 2010 . moreover , coal-fired power generation has been the leading emitter of carbon dioxide , the leading climate-related greenhouse gases , which cause about 150,000 annual deaths annually , and poses a risk of pervasive hazards this century and beyond . research by the global commission on the economics and climate last year has calculated that particulate matter by 2025 , on average , particulates about 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economies – in
in politics , this may prove to be dangerous , for it encourages basing decisions , regardless of how weighty , whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails . yet , at times , that desire appears to be overwhelming in the post-modern democracies of any kind . indeed , democracy nowadays embraced a pop culture of rapidly passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow ; there are always even more waiting in the wings . in fact , democracy nowadays embraced a pop culture of rapidly bypassing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow ; and there are always more waiting in the wings . calling for more referenda , both reflects and fuels that trend .
or , “ “ investment ” proposal for your consideration , ” or , of course , serve as a benchmark ? perhaps , she should say “ “ “ “ “ “ “ message ” for president barack ” if she shares an open letter , but otherwise … … . she may say “ “ “ “ “ message ” for president barack ” if she shares an open letter , but otherwise … . ” the best subject says what the message is all about and signals the desired response : “ invitation to speak out in paris on july 14 . ” sadly , i get many of these messages headlined up to update . ”
and yet the changes currently afoot may simply turn out to be turning things around . economists worldwide took note of the advent of raghuram rajan as the chief economist at the finance ministry . india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . yet it is far from showing that sonia gandhi , the president of india ’s national congress party , and the country ’s most powerful politician , share singh ’s reform agenda . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer in the political economy , and the imf ’s former chief economist .
separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a strong commitment to the pursuit of truth , too , is required . we must put aside popper 's tacit assumption that political discourse aims at a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . these can not be identi­cal for the scientific method ; but they should be similar in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria on which political opinion should be judged . we must put in place new ground rules on the basis of political discourse . politicians will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only if the public cares about truth and punishes policymakers when it seizes them in deliberating deception .
there are both structural and infrastructural explanations : lack of training facilities , gymnasiums who run tracks , devices , finance resources . but those rationales will not do so : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , periodically rake in their medals . we are a developing country to be told ; after all , it ’s not just your attitude toward its own ; your legs are taken against hers ; but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer bow . there are both structural and infrastructural explanations : the lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , devices , and finance sources . why , then , are the indian athletes who have perform so badly ?
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for the new american century ( g8 ) dispatched a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to overthrow saddam hussein . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the notion that iraq possessed of weapons of weapons of weapons of weapons of weapons of mass destruction , despite the lack of conclusive evidence . as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for the new american century ( g8 ) dispatched a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to overthrow saddam hussein . and , following his victory in 2000 , bush proclaimed iraq one of its top two security priorities . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received an now-declassified intelligence report arguing that there is no precision how much we can know ” about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has drastically changed . the greatest difference between 2009 and 1979 was created by the revolution itself . iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of the narrow ruling stratum and a much broader support group , which had been accorded charges of governance and political mobilization . r evolutions of giving birth to the new political class , iran ’s former islamic revolution was no exception . gradually , the clerical elite lost power to military/security groups from whose ranks as president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . but the us should not exaggerate the significance of that point .
too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss out on school , owing to their lack of access to clean sanitary products . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . research shows that many girls worldwide , and especially those in the global south , are simply unprepared for menarche ; education can help . finally , we need fact-based solutions .
under these conditions , it would have been all the more surprising had depositors not rushed into pulling their funds out of greek banks . and the greek state has no wherewithal to confront its banks . economists have long understood that , in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , the banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling creditor-debtor crises . that is a lender of may be a monetary or fiscal one , and , in greece , both types are at odds with each other . if greece were to agree with the eu , and the imf would unwind , the european central bank would no longer accept greek bonds as collateral .
president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , as well as his cyber attacks against america and others , although intended to make russia look great once again , are simply worsening the country ’s long-term prospects . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order , ’s ban on the use of force by states to seize territory from their immediate neighbors . in the short run , however , declining countries are often taking greater risks , and thus more dangerous , – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . in the short run , however , declining countries often take bigger risks , and therefore become more dangerous , witnessing the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . this created the political dilemma .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) is hurting all the parties involved , as well as europe most of all . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as a bankrupt state and an economy . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as a bankrupt state and an economy . greece needs both the money and reforms that are swiftly and within the european union and the eu .
as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are poised to fill the power vacuum , just as they do . and , indeed , china ’s extraordinary diplomatic skill across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative hegemonic power – one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage or moralizing of democracy and human rights . trump ’s presidency provides china with new opportunities to cement its role as an investment provider , and all the way in its infrastructure , as well as its help to a host of countries that are eager to advance their development . indeed , china ’s rise has given rise to a new orbit for many countries around the world – particularly in the developing world and the emerging economies . its unilateralist approach is likely to push the us into playing catch-up with china as an investment provider , and to all extent its infrastructure and help host countries that are eager to advance .
rousseau became so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that it would prefer to see men grazing at meadow grass rather than pounce on one another in their cities . that , at least , is the metaphor that jean-jacques rousseau referred to as a pit of human corruption . austin – living in a town turns you to a cannibal . urbanites turn out to be the type of people poised to sacrifice one another to please their fln : the cannibals . rousseau became so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that it would prefer to see men grazing at meadow grass rather than devouring one another in their cities .
the question at the beginning of 2019 is what it will mean for the global economy , unless that scenario plays out . if not , could any other country fill that role , even in part ? looking ahead to march 2021-2030 period , the annual gdp growth rate of 8 % ( relative to the 10 % pace of the last decade ) and a gradual rise in consumption to 50 % of gdp would translate into chinese consumer spending of about $ 18.4 trillion annually by 2030 . in that scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in the dollar ’s terms . if not , could any other country fill that role , even partly ?
yet , unlike in many emerging economies , china is not fighting a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , making it a net lender of all to the rest of the world . first , with its bank-dominated financial system dominating china ( along with europe and many other emerging economies ) , china suffers from a maturity mismatches , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term lending patterns . nor can policymakers afford to ignore a fourth mismatch – between the ultra-low nominal interest rates and a relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for investors – that has fueled speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality . at least four “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , and three in the plague of china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many other emerging economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term lending .
reaffirming its commitment to the rapid decarbonization of its energy system , as well as its creative policies to support that goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of its most spectacular new market opportunities in living memory . in recent decades , europe has been the engine of energy upgrading . events over the past 15 months – beginning with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico – have been followed by the violence in north africa and the current tragedy in june , confronting the world with stark choices among conventional energy sources and risks , as well as the promise and advance of clean energy . in the years ahead , such leadership will be necessary to help capture the economic , ecological , and security gains of renewable energy . with the destination of 20 gw of solar-generating capacity by 2020 , investment in india could grow rapidly .
for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for local content demands , infant industries , intellectual property protections , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . in october 1982 , the french government demanded that every japanese libra imports enter the country via its poitiers , a city of hundreds of miles from an nearest significant shipping port . that non-tariff barriers to trade have remained in effect until april 1983 . in the absence of tariffs and quotas , trade can be hindered by subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping laws , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . human ingenuity appears to know no bounds when dreaming up protectionist barriers .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , in order to defeat populism requires an grips with a more fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result from the government 's loss of power . washington , dc , in order to defeat populism requires an grips with a more fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result from the government 's loss of power .
two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter-century : a strong push to use debt to prop up demand and a shift to financing public-sector debt through market-price private institutions , under the guise of fighting inflation . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice that of world gdp . but those efforts were conducive to fraud and delinquency rates , and therefore spurred a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , asia in asia in 1997 , and in russia in 1998 , just as recessions in europe and the united states did in the early 2000 ’s . two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter-century : a strong stimulus to use debt to prop up demand and a shift to financing public-sector debt through market-price private institutions , under the guise of fighting inflation . the financial industry has since made every effort to design instruments to protect against price fluctuations , turn private-sector debt into tradable financial securities , and gain access to speculative markets .
and chile ’s national public-investment scheme evaluates all of the proposed public-projects that use of standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . additional savings opportunities – to be sure , to be sure , to tune with $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . likewise , the united kingdom has established a cost-benefit review program , which has identified 40 major projects for prioritizing , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed its approval rate to an average of 11 % in just a single year . additional savings opportunities – to the tune of $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industry , and employees ) , biology , space flight , and many more , and include representations like graphs , such as graphs , timelines , and tables of how they are interconnected . most things do not exist in isolation , but in the very short term . they have complex relationships with others , and , by representing that information using verbs – for example , the company that google has acquired ” ” vs. the company that google competes with ” the us can represent the world more precisely . and that means a better , more meaningful response when one searches for it . one soon can be done .
last year , european commission vice president viviane reding published a call for voluntary action . the european union now considers legislation to compel corporate boards to retain some proportions of up to 60 % of female executive board membership . reding invited corporations to sign up to the gender balance goals of up to 40 % of female boards ’ female boards of directors . this proposed mandate has been born out of frustration . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit , with its own listing of not-for-profit women .
and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . yet we can devise a more structured , limited version of the question , for which there is a definitive answer . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the question , in turn , typically invites a significant , inconclusive debate . cambridge – at the dawn of a series of classes every autumn – i am well aware of my own students with the following question : is it better to be poor in an affluent or wealthy country ?
alternatively , low interest rates could push italy ( or her pension funds ) to buy riskier , long-term maturities on their debt . given that these bonds are already aggressively priced in the us , such a move might thus set out for a slump , at a time when interest rates are finally rising . indeed , america may well be at the forefront of adding a pension crisis to the unemployment problem . it has been saved , because it wants a sufficient amount of money to retire . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced by the fed , such a move might thus set her way for a slump once interest rates rise .
certainly , the zambians ’ achievement can not compete either with intervention in libya or the arab spring drama . and yet what has happened in zambia concerns these developments – and thus relevant everywhere . after all , the smooth power transitions are not to be taken for granted . indeed , it has defeated an incumbent who truly wants to hold onto power , and who may reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept an outcome . and yet what has happened in zambia has been connected to those developments – and thus relevant everywhere .
but russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia , and iran , turkey , and the kurds and israel , as well as iran and iran . as it stands , syria is russia ’s sole client state in the middle east . its use of hard power has won the civil war of president bashar al-assad ’s regime , which demonstrates how the strategic deployment of an unrestrained military force – witness the utter destruction of aleppo – may prove to be a game-changer . whereas a politics of neutrality has allowed russia to maintain a dialogue with different sides , it will do nothing to forge a new regional order . in fact , russia has been starkly apparent in syria .
but , again , the external-financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian voters were soon starting to bristle at the reforms demanded by the imf . investors were willing to purchase even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . but , again , the external-financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian voters were soon beginning to fall back on the reforms demanded by the imf . with external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed once again . again , however , the external-financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian voters were soon starting to fall back on the reforms demanded by the imf .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand may have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has been discussing . helicopter money proponents , by contrast , directly crediting citizens with central-bank money or crediting national treasuries to fund infrastructure and other demand-generating activities , are rightly arguing that it has the advantage of putting money directly into the hands of those who are spending it . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured fashion , heading off the japanese-style deflationary trap . moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand may have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has been discussing . this might take the airout of incipient asset bubbles , which may be forming , and ease the pressures on institutional investors who struggle to find the yield that they need to meet their insurance and retirement liabilities .
he also visited the un compound at the heart of gaza city to voice the un ’s grave concerns over its own bombing . during fighting in gaza , he publicly pressed for a suspension of warfare , demanding that israel open its frontiers to relief aid . this was followed by two visits that it made to haiti over the last 18 months , as well as the afghan donor ’s conference , which , in april , sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban has taken an active role in the gaza crisis . it has also visited the un compound at the heart of gaza city to voice the un ’s grave concerns over its bombing .
boom-and-bust financial cycles are fueled largely by generated shocks in advanced economies , but they are the key determinants of emerging-market countries ’ business cycles . moreover , the spillover effects in the advanced economies of advanced economies extend far beyond financial shocks . boom-and-bust financial cycles are fueled largely by generated shocks in the advanced economies , but they are the key determinants of emerging markets ’ emerging-market economies . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , even as capital inflows have risen worldwide , they are larger in emerging-market economies than in the advanced economies . in the past couple of years , deficit economies in the eurozone ’s periphery , and , more recently , italy has pursued massive external adjustments , with germany and the netherlands running persistent large surpluses .
but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will need to answer the vexing question that they have failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ? first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of the army and the failure to divide it into its leadership makes any wide-ranging violence untenable , especially given that the egyptian state ’s struggle against terrorism in the 1980s and 1990 ’s has weakened the country ’s operational assets . finally , despite egypt ’s significant demographic and economic shifts during the past four decades , the egyptian society still maintains its agrarian character , favoring conciliation and compromise . in a country with over 45 million people under the age of 35 years , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a prolonged impasse . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now run out of passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt for participation in domestic politics through organized structures and processes .
powerful states like china and russia are not constraining themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; but they also promote those elsewhere engaged in similar practices . south africa , for its part , ’s largely peaceful transition to multiracial democracy in the early 1990s , marked a further advance to human rights . a factor contributing to their demise has been the shift in thinking that transformed the east-west conflict from one that emphasized economic systems . but the past decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and , during the last decade , the tide seems to have been reversed against the cause of human rights . the same goes for the lesser powers like iran and venezuela . a factor contributing to their demise has been the shift in thinking that transformed the east-west conflict from one that emphasizes economic systems .
because technological innovations further reduce entry barriers for both producers and consumers alike , proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , beyond what is already essentially the spaghetti bowl of cross-border interactions and dependencies . for both individual players ’ longer-term health and global systems , those relationships need to function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that is widely viewed as credible . that is why the current confrontation between the u.s. and china has raised fears of severe harm , particularly if it results in ever-greater protectionism and a broader “ trade war ” over the long term . supply chains now may have as many substantial international linkages as domestic ones , with a substantial share of domestic demand being met in part or wholly manufactured abroad . if it does , they risk stemming from low levels of growth and welfare .
if britain wants to do business with others , it will need to agree on common rules . this is not about sovereignty , or even the satrapy of satrapy . it is simply a matter of whether the us would prefer china ’s access to intellectual property and technology transfers over western those countries or to european food and agricultural standards over those of american states . if britain wants to do business with others , the eu will need to make decisions on which the economic bloc can align and then accept that the bloc ’s rules . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , then it will find only sorrow and isolation .
in the us , which has the most progressive income taxes among the major economies , the federal tax reforms to lower rates and broadening the base are under discussion . deleveraging from governments , financial institutions , and households has been one major cause of sluggish economic recovery . but sluggish growth implies less tax revenue and greater entitlement payments to cushion hardship , placing upward pressure on government budgets . the gamble has been that a robust , durable recovery would allow banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets fast enough to escape the need for additional bailouts . in europe , structural reforms focus on higher retirement ages and on labor-market flexibility .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , questioning whether he would endorse an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . yet dahrendorf remained adamant that the nnpd ’s fate should be determined by voters , rather than by the courts declaring an illegal communist party . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister party had been a staunch member of the opposition . nonetheless , dahrendorf remained adamant that the nnpd ’s fate should be determined by voters , rather than by the courts that proclaimed the communist party illegal . bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , questioning whether he would advocate an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 .
liquidity remains constrained in the run-up to the financial crisis of 2008 , a legacy that encompasses an risk-free regulatory regime . though financing for public infrastructure has returned to 2008 levels , very little is being funneled into new projects . to overcome obstacles to investment , we propose the creation of an asset class that we call “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . that asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it for at least 15 years or longer . most funds have targeted current infrastructure – which is presumed to be relatively secure , because they entail little or no construction risk , and demonstrate their potential to generate stable cash revenue .
but , following the recent 64 % currency devaluation , the clock appears to be running out of hand on its prolonged misrule . washington , dc , belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . he tricked the international monetary fund into extending a $ 3.4 trillion loan , promising freer elections in december 2010 just to burnish that bridge to a brutal crackdown when faced with an adverse electoral outcome and the largest protests his regime had ever seen . washington , dc , belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . now russia has taken a harder line demanding a steep price for soft loans , which in any case are insufficient to rescue the regime .
in its current struggle with google , for example , china appears to think that its technologists may be giving the means to uphold an old thought check . but , thankfully , for anyone with tenacity and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like a sieve . indeed , it has become increasingly clear that china has opened up its economy only to keep the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power rather than respect and enhance the lives of ordinary chinese . the great progress of china ’s ’s economy over the last 30 years is something that all chinese are celebrating . yet liu ’s jailing also illustrates the starkest terms that china ’s ’s ’s neglect of human rights is spilling over into the rest of the world , alongside the massacres of chinese manufactured goods .
liu , a master tactician , seems to be underscoring the connection between leadership power and the pace of reform . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted that the upcoming reforms are likely to occur with surprising speed . given these mounting concerns , the implementation risks are now being presented in just another light . liu , a master tactician , seems to be underscoring the connection between leadership power and the pace of reform . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ strengthening ” the party ’s global leadership is at its core .
the situation for the 7-9 million roma living in the continent deserves government leaders ’ urgent attention , because they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . the roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing and most vulnerable minority . a similar picture , though on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries home to roma minorities . a wide socioeconomic disparity exists between european populations and the roma , or “ gypsies ” – many of them living in extreme poverty – between europe and the roma . the situation for the 7-9 million roma living in the continent deserves government leaders ’ urgent attention , because they shape the policies of the enlarged eu .
but where its actions are insufficient is , it is the right and responsible for china ’s central government to step in . it need not be this way ; it needs to be done . on the political front , the key lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and guarantee security . within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has the powers to address internal-security issues . to help find solutions , we have performed the pest ( in political , economic , cultural , and technological terms ) analyses of hong kong ’s current circumstances and its future prospects .
it needs , above all , a program of vision on research and development , educational attainment , and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population across the member states . above all , it needs an agenda of ideas on research and development , educational attainment , and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population across all member countries . the european parliament elections are fewer than four months away from the current poll . should they fail , the prospect that a populist dominated parliament becomes a reality . and that might mark the beginning of a slow-motion process of economic disintegration .
elected officials everywhere need to adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who put them into office . by contrast , intellectuals have a special obligation to think that the unthinkable , and to speak out the unspeakable . when asked whether america was ready to become the world ’s second-largest economy , they have become reticent . their reaction has been understandable : even entertaining the possibility of an american population becoming “ numbers of two ” to the career suicide of an american politician . they are supposed to weigh all opportunities , even disagreeable ones , and to prepare populations for prospective developments .
mexico city – the current innovation era , in which cutting-edge technologies disrupt entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , was hailed as the “ fourth industrial revolution . ” it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s ’s ’s annual annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . to maximize the benefits , we now need to take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to the economy as a whole , and mexico is no exception . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity .
a 12.5 % tax is being levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risk expanding , innovate , and become more competitive , thus bolstering job creation and economic growth – perhaps requiring less rents . likewise , italy ’s ’s tax-to-gdp ratio amounts to about 2 % of the total government revenues , compared to the oecd ’s 4 % average , and the government plans to slash it further . in reality , italy ’s ’s current tax system is skewed in favor of savers . a 12.5 % tax is being levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risk expanding , innovate , and become more competitive , thus bolstering job creation and economic growth – perhaps requiring less rents . and france pays a 15 % tax on rents , whereas the unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes .
kaczyński knows full well that his own party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely not step in any time soon . current polls indicate that the pis has risen to about 40 % of gdp , more than twice that of the previous ruling party , a civic platform . this suggests that , while poles may not agree to the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to take a high risk on free courts or to the liberal-democratic rule in general . and , though thousands of – perhaps tens of thousands of polish protesters – have rallied ahead of the polish supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million of them voted for the pis in its 2015 general election . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that , “ “ whatever the european commission wo n’t break poland ’s wo n’t reform , ” other reforms will have little sense , because sooner or later they would have been negated , pulled out of the courts that we now have .
here , too , some routine praise has been working with both presidents , george w. bush and barack obama , as well as reprise of their frustrations with people who have not seen the world as going on and detaining their solutions , such as manila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and the various pesky members of the us congress . the main interest lies not so much in narrative chapters covering up the same ground as their past books , as in their policy recommendations for the future . tim dethought that hank took a different view , ” ” and so forth , as if the three musketeers were interviewed by the oral historian harold wilson institute ( fdic ) and the various pesky members of the us congress . it is noteworthy that they have been able to build a consensus on fairly radical agendas . three proposals in particular should prompt policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard .
likewise , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think that trump is arrogant , with only 50 % remaining convinced that the u.s. and the uk have special relations now coming into office . in germany , just 6 % of respondents think that trump is qualified to hold his current office , and 91 % regard him as arrogant . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , both of which are run by populist right-wing governments . the sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . this may help to explain why trump ’s ’s scheduled state visit to the united kingdom has been delayed indefinitely .
soon thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton made it clear that “ america can not solve the most pressing problems on our own , ” and that the world can not solve them without america . soon thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton argued that “ america can not solve the most pressing problems on our own , ” and that the world can not solve them without america . soon thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton argued that “ america can not solve the most pressing problems on our own , ” and that the world can not solve them without america . conventional wisdom always holds that the state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age that can be the state ( or non-state ) with the best narrative to win . in a sixteen-century control of colonies and gold bullion the gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from its larger populations and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and naval .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy , when evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he said that “ france will be glad if somebody can force the parliament ’s ” to reform . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that allow them to set policies that are sustainable in the long run , while safeguarding the democratic process itself . a lack of accountability inevitably produces corruption and inefficiencies – problems that china now finds itself wrestling . the public consensus supports difficult reform in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters can grasp and accept tradeoffs when there are no perceived alternative . more fundamentally , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy , when evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he said , “ france will be glad if somebody can force a parliament to reform . ”
he had to stay in nebraska , helping my grandfather to save a family farm from a bank that had already repossessed one-third of its land . then he tracked the inputs and weather patterns that were seldom done at that time . my father realized that he could not go it alone and need better access to finance . he turned to nebraska university , where he received his undergraduate degrees , acquiring the hybrid maize and other improved seeds that a university is developing . the most important change that my father made was in his thinking : he came to think about the farm not as subsistence operations , but rather as a family business .
and it means making europe , along with our auto industry , the eu ’s first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . just $ 0.6 trillion of tons , just 7.5 % , originate in recycling , compared to recycling . it also means applying stringent co2 emission caps to new passenger cars , public transportation , and commercial seaports , as well as aviation and aviation . second , europe needs to take the lead in responsible utilities and becoming a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , 8 billion tons of materials are processed in energy or products annually in the eu .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council brought together a team of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into the foreign-policy debates that lead to american elections , including by preparing for a public debate . but the payoff , for both america and the liberal world order that it created , would be substantial . this is not simply a matter of semantics ; such a change will require that the us re-conceive of its role in the world . the key to success will be america ’s capacity to retain the best – and abandon the worst – of that most american notions : exceptionalism . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council brought together a team of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into the foreign-policy debate that leads to american elections , including by preparing for public debate .
between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income had barely migrated from $ 600 , whereas the united kingdom quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) and even spain doubled . but late angus maddison ’s estimates of historic gdp per capita suggest that china ’s economic “ retardation ” began well before its encounters with the west . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply the “ restoration ” of its success that the country enjoyed before nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted its harmonious system . china ’s ’s ’s ’s political stability , and the relative absence of violence , was thus achieved at the expense of its economic dynamism , rather than harmony with it . outsiders have misinterpreted this system as a way to build on a clearly defined scheme , ” ” ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-line royals at the very top ” and the scholar gentry to administer state affairs – as a recipe for economic stagnation .
its political stability , an open economy , and a balanced international relationship are becoming increasingly aligned with america ’s and european regional interests . moreover , morocco is a loyal and longstanding ally of america . its political stability , an open economy , and a balanced international relationship are increasingly aligned with american and european regional interests . the west would do well to begin cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complicated region . this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan , which serves syrian refugees .
the issue for women ’s faculty , particularly in the science of science , is far more complicated . most of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven , but in their scientific careers they depict two kinds of typically male behavior . i suspect that here the problem reflects fundamental differences between how women and men approach the science of science as the microcosm of life . as i grow older , it is no longer certain that this is so important , but male members of our species seem to think so much about it . the issue for women ’s faculty , particularly in the basic sciences , is far more complicated .
so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to a tharwa project . but the project appears to represent the kind of activity that can help to produce visions of change . this , combined with the prominence of an advisory council ( which includes the well-known egyptian sociologist saad ibrahim , a french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , the brookings institution ) , and the sensibilities of the country ’s minority rights in general , have combined to give the project national , regional , and international notice . some in the syrian government might have been aware of this . it is probably still too early to do so .
every new bilateral deal , each chapter in the era of globalization , should be measured against new criteria . that growth reflects the faulty economic model of the pre-crisis years , which has relied on indifference to where growth originated , how sustainable it was , and who benefited the most from it . will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities for those becoming economically displaced by them ? how sustainable , and how evenly distributed , will the underlying macroeconomic benefit be ? if we are to learn something from the ongoing crisis , then it must be to start asking the right questions .
and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . cambridge – in the euphoric moment immediately following the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 – few would have guessed that ukraine – an industrialized country with an educated labor force and vast natural resources – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . neighboring poland , which had been poorer than ukraine in 1991 than it did in 1991 , managed nearly to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) over the next three decades . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
of course , these countries can resist an upward squeeze on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , just as they did in the aftermath of the global financial crisis . here , currency appreciation is already underway , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 , and , in some cases , may even be rumored to have been excessive ( for example , in brazil ) . why should emerging-market countries undertake this strange kind of financial intermediation , which represents major costs , because the yield on private money is larger than that of the volume of reserves ? now , consider the other major emerging markets , too . here the currency appreciation is already happening , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 and , in some cases , perhaps too ( in brazil ) .
the final blow came when interbank lending – which is at the heart of the financial system – was disrupted , because banks had to husband their resources and ca n’t trust their counterparties . the asset-backed business paper market came into a standstill , and special investment vehicles established by banks to bail out their balance sheets could no longer get outside funding . that , in turn , has made the crisis more severe than any since world war ii . credit expansion now needs to follow an era of contraction , because some new loan facilities and practices are unsound and unsustainable . central banks had to inject an unprecedented amount of money and extend credit on an unprecedented array of securities to a broader array of institutions than ever before .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . trump ’s greatest difficulty is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal , officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) , – from which he withdrew the united states – have remained committed to the deal . likewise , britain , france , germany , russia , and brazil have opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . european signatories have established a special mechanism to facilitate trade and business with iran at risk of american retaliation , while both russia and china have scaled up their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the western alliance ’s history that america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s european allies have joined with their rivals . they are committed to preserving an agreement , and doing whatever it can to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to abide by it .
an effective answer to the problem lies : the solar-power technology industry . according to the african progress panel estimates , poor african households would save about $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels , which they could be able to digest education , health , and productive investment . likewise , firms that provide these panels would benefit enormously from tapping this huge new market . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices for energy . to be sure , firms that provide such panels would also benefit substantially from tapping this huge new market .
the wealthiest 10 % of people account for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the world ’s poorest 50 % generate 10 % of their emissions . even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising above 1.5 ° c above preindustrial levels . that process has been going on for centuries , but it has been accelerating in recent decades , because the choice few have acquired ever-larger shares of overall wealth and political influence . the ipcc , even the ipcc , has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising above 1.5 ° c above preindustrial levels . unwilling to confront those who are destroying our planet , political leaders have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere .
imports account for about 15 % of america ’s gdp . and when growth slows due to higher costs for imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . moreover , foreign central banks can do their best to do the job , which is why the us and china do not . and , if growth slows due to the greater costs of its imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . imports account for about 15 % of america ’s gdp , up from about 70 % in the us .
and yet simply revoking citizenship fails to resolve the problem of leaving at large , suspected terrorist groups , who may then conduct attacks elsewhere – unless , like sakr , it is actually killed . the ability to revoke citizenship , without presenting any evidence in the public , is one reason why a government may prefer this course to arresting and attempt terrorism suspects . the larger question raised by the uk ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance of trust between individual rights , including the right to citizenship and the public good . suppose that the us government gets it 19 times out of the 20th century , when it relies on suspicions of engaging in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . had it been true about the decisions made by the uk government in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen is stateless .
government and business together should fund new research and development to drive costs even lower . above all , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power stations at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should cease to finance new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . moreover , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power stations at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired electricity plants in the rest of asia , like pakistan and the philippines . government and business together should fund new research and development to drive costs even lower . as old age of fossil-fuel plants and shuttered , they should be replaced by clean-energy generation , for example , through renewable-energy auctions .
what the mikta countries share are rapid economic growth and growing influence outside its own borders . in the alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member states like bicsmikta may ultimately prove too unwieldy to be workable . many of their challenges and twenty-first-century ambitions dovetail ( the brics , minus russia ) . they have development challenges , but so are models for economic dynamism and innovations with substantial stakes in the way that post-wwii global institutions and rules are supposed to be reshaping . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s emergence from a multilateral scene will be a catalyst of new thinking on global challenges .
when the fed viewed how a weak upturn had remained , it embarked on a strategy of open-ended unconventional monetary policies , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises of keeping the short federal funds rate extraordinarily low for an extended period . other components of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and expenditure added more to the national debt than to gdp . much of the “ “ stimulus ” simply financed increased spending by state governments that would pay off in other ways . the objective was to encourage portfolio investors to shift into equities and other assets , with the consequent rise in their prices putting downward pressure on household wealth and consumer spending . it was too small to close the output gap , abandon the continued downward pressure on demand .
indeed , danish voters saw most of the gains from euro membership already due to the danish krone ’s unchanged link first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . despite various starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the united kingdom have this in common : they prefer to see europe as a cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone , to an closer union . in denmark , my own country , there is no economic readiness . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on the failure of europe by its european supporters to explain the gap between this unchallenged policy and full european participation . as a result , denmark may be just the last to vote , but not necessarily to join .
conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that north korea must move first toward denuclearization , before any kind of economic assistance is offered . but there is little reason for the international effort to secure north korea ’s denuclearization must exclude policies that aim to bring about domestic reform . to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only impediment to international engagement . by contrast , it may be impossible to win north korea as a assent to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change . we need not assume that such goals can not be pursued at present .
at the heart of europe ’s political crisis has been the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise that neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing each other . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic hardship has resulted in a massive distributional conflict . what was once an relationship among equals has given way to an face-saving between borrowers and lenders . the reciprocal mistrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably harm both the soul of the union and the entire european project . and no one should doubt that the front and its voters imply .
in a section of a “ new economy , ” dominated by producers ’ economies of scale and the consumer-led economies of scale , a firm that lays the lead in market share gains the almost overwhelming benefit of doing so . the larger the market , the bigger the cost advantage of the latter . unless its rivals take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly steps , such as those taken by microsoft against netscape , its online browser , its rival in the online market , by pouring a fortune into the creation of its internet exploits and then distributing it to free -- the first firm to establish the dominant market positions reap high returns as long as its industry of industry lasts . moreover , technology-manufactured information also costs more to consumers . a version of the “ new economy ” that is dominated by producers ’ economies of scale and the consumer-led economies of scale , a firm that lays the lead in market share gains almost overwhelming benefit .
but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how many to admit , and it should implement organized ways to make it easier for them to enter . the most urgent priority now is to establish safe , legal pathways for refugees to reach europe . this is not to say that each vulnerable migrant must be embraced . that is why its member states need to take the lead in proposing solutions . such a system would protect the migrants and safeguard europe ( by allowing it to vet applicants fully ) .
in recent years , american corporate politics and political institutions have become more polarized than distributing opinions in the american public would indicate . three-quarters of americans feel connected with their municipalities , saying that the quality of life there is excellent or good news ; 40 % say that they work with others in their communities , the most important thing they can do . as an editorial in an economist recently concluded , “ america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political system ” was designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not an easy matter . the situation was exacerbated by the downturn following the 2008 financial crisis . citizens ’ ’ ’ behavior seems not to have changed as dramatically as their responses to the poll question .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . new york city – at any moment – can be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or , as a moving image , telling us not only where we are , but where we have been , and where we may be headed . it is the distinction of having an enormous difference .
this does not necessarily mean inundating people with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach can result in desensitization . for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project – which provides on-demand helicopter transport – is tapping the city ’s well-known innovative capacity , while tackling the congestion process . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while providing equitable access to services among residents , should be subsidized by the central government . moreover , innovation can drive pollution abatement as well . in fact , awareness is the third pillar of the united nations strategy for tackling air pollution .
after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an comprehensive deal – could backfire . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving that . perhaps , but so far , conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even disastrously so . meanwhile , the most urgent priority is a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . all else has already failed , may be the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians .
and it would have the added merit of enlightening the german public about the true purposes of the rescue operation of the rescue operation . first , the european financial stability facility must serve to rescue the banking system , just as member states do . despite this added task , the magnitude of the rescue package could remain the same , because any amount used to recapitalize or liquidating banks reduces the size that governments need . bringing a european banking system under european supervision , rather than leaving it in the hands of national institutions , would constitute a fundamental improvement that helps restore trust . this would enable sovereign-debt restructuring without precipitating the banking crisis .
whereas no one knows that corbyn will take on this topic , one can speculate that he , like some trade-union bosses who back him , may decide that the eu is the wealthy man of the club , thereby precluding a much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership . by contrast , in the early days of the coming year , may will be able to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has won vigilant respect but is not a lot liked . second , without an effective and accountable opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and overly concentrated among their own supporters . in that case , the conservative labour party ’s leaders are likely to think that they can dispense with offering the disciplined support of prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn in any way . second , without effective and accountable opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and overly oriented toward their own supporters .
at that point , the us government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take on a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , accepting a rebate on the amounts owed to them . after the us government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig had continued to mount , requiring the government to supply substantial amounts of extra capital just two months later . america ’s government felt it had a weak hand , because it was not ready to allow aig to default on either of its obligations . after the us government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , requiring the government to supply substantial amounts of extra capital just two months later . the bailout came with aig large losses on derivative transactions with financial institutions , most of which are sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander .
gaza is ruled by a totally hostile regime , one that is only a few years ago . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and to continue a rocket fire at civilian targets inside the country . in some ways , hamas ’s ’s military coup makes matters all the more clear . israel has long since determined that it has little interest in reneging on its control over the gaza strip . at last , the world needs to recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s of peace process have been totally dashed .
by the late 1970s , growth began to slow in many advanced western economies , with us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that super-activity . the aberrant era in us history is that of the century , or so years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecoms , and transportation fundamentally transformed societies . human lives became markedly more productive , and life expectancies have risen dramatically . human lives have become markedly more productive today , and life expectancies have risen dramatically . the global population grew by more than 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , before doubling in the next 50 years , with economies growing at a much faster pace than they did in previous centuries .
the two parties include both conservatives and the liberals , the defense hawks and the doves . the core of japan ’s political inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because the parties ’ divisions are , in fact , devoid of any consistent ideological and policy difference . japan appears condemned to tolerate chronic , nonsensical political trench warfare , until some crisis forces the realignment of political parties along the ideological and political lines . the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , is a exemplar of this blinkered legacy . the sadly , the chances that the ldp will reform , or that the dpj develops into a accountable cabinet party for the foreseeable future are slim .
moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , the hardline socialist party and a closet brexiteer , is insisting on leading such a government . likewise , the motley crew of rebel groups would have to encourage the creation of an caretaker government that seeks a brexit expansion , calling the general election and perhaps legislate a second referendum as well . that would have required the conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats ( spd ) , as well as the mps who quit labour in the protests over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind it – a tall order . but bringing the government together would have been insufficient to suspend a no-deal brexit . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , the hardline socialist party and a closet brexiteer , are insisting on leading such a government .
as a result , these gains should be taxed in american states , too . instead , apple charges a symbolic fee to allow it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a miniscule tax to the irs . in fact , these gains should be taxed in the us , too . the asi ’s gain stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights act , which is based on research and development entirely in american states ( most of it underpinning the federal government ’s funding ) . the irs , for example , choose not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip returns .
each has acquired ( or kept ) power through polarizing their societies , and by mobilizing their electoral base . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful edge , generating the electoral polarization upon which the pekos have nourished . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most exposure to them . the pekos ’ political style has been enabled by the modern news media , which , scrambling for audiences ’ share , streamline , and sensationalizing issues . this is no doubt efficient strategy .
britons had their say during this summer about whether they wanted gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) , product in their field , and foods . the director of the british debates ’ organizing committee , a professor of malcolm grant , referred to them as “ a unique experiment to discover what ordinary people actually think once told all the arguments . ” that suggestion may be amusing the coming child , but there is nothing amusing when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to sophisticated policies involving science and technology . to gauge public opinion in advance of a decision scheduled for later this year on whether to permit commercial planting of gm crops , the british government sponsored ( at great expense ) a series of public debates worldwide . in fact , local governments , as well as other organizations , held hundreds of additional public meetings .
today , european governments seem willing to let putin buy votes that he will blow up the eu . and , with public opinion polls showing that a substantial minority of europeans are falling into line with putin ’s rhetoric , his divide-and-dividing strategy appears to be making real headway . indeed , the kremlin is funding many such parties . lenin once said that capitalists will sell the ropes with whom they are hanged . there are other kremlin supporters , too , as well , including corporate leaders seeking to return to business as usual with russia , as well as academic apologists for the former soviet union , who , just 25 years after its collapse , see a chance of vindication .
it takes millennia for fertile soil to form ; in many places , cloudburst is now all it takes to wash it away . it takes millennia for fertile soil to form ; in many places , cloudburst is now all that takes a long time to wash it . in germany alone , construction projects claim an average of more than 75 hectares a day . according to the world bank estimate , about 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – which would benefit from millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous peoples – have suffered from large-scale investment . improper agricultural practices are also being blamed : liberal use of synthetic fertilizers , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting soils and changing their structures .
an american war against iran is plausible only as a response to the blatant and imminent iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as the high-profile terrorist attack , an invasion of the gulf ally , or the erosion of the free flow of middle east oil into the west . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s own capacity to construct international alliances , which aims to place pressure on the defiant states . that is an odd idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded america ’s economy ’s weaknesses . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . indeed , iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s own capacity to construct an international alliance aimed at placing pressure on the defiant states .
in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continue to impede investment required to upgrade public-sector firms and place a major roadblock in the direction of land reform . the imf ’s economic framework is not yet providing counter-cyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating an economy in a slump . while germany ’s president is not supposed to intervene in the country ’s day-to-day governance , its voice will undoubtedly become influential . it is here that germany should take pause and look at the record . for example , when the us government borrows in order to purchase land , it is treated like debt ; but an offsetting transaction when it sells finland effectively went unrecognized .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as us president , but questions about russia ’s tariff interference in us elections wo n’t go away . yet one key question often looms out in the fray : why have russian president vladimir putin done so ? to be sure , it is not hard to predict why putin has favored trump on his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . yet one key question often looms in the fray : why have russian president vladimir putin been doing so ? in the us , america ’s intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by aiding trump , the kremlin has been advancing its “ “ longstanding ” desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” ” ” ” ” ” ” is not entirely compelling .
specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances the ease of doing business in india while targeting improved delivery mechanisms for the welfare system . nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts – not least in its convergence of vision and implementation . no amount of budget change might generate such a mark , cost-free acceleration in growth . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an annual rate of 8-8.5 % of gdp over the next fiscal year . it is fair to say that typically the staid statistics department stole the thunder from this year ’s budget .
following the failures of its imperialist greater east asian co-prosperity regime of the 1930s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war i , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and relied on its strategic alliance with the american-led economy . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth reached its goal , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . following the failures of its imperialist greater east asian co-prosperity scheme of the 1930 ’s ( which had the soft-power components of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war i , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and relied on a strategic alliance with the u.s. . but , following the depletion of its maoist strategy in the 1970s , chinese leaders turned to market-based mechanisms in order to spur economic development . yet it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , spending significant resources to make itself attractive overseas .
likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since early this year , and the authorities seem well on the path to hitting the carbon-intensity of the economy that is established in 2010 . regulatory reforms are starting to mitigate shadow-banking risk , with even some ghost towns being revived by market forces . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to maintain reform momentum . xi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as it will be for the removal of a retired politburo standing committee member , china ’s most powerful body . to succeed , the government needs to , as xi put it , “ how even hard bones ” – that is , overcoming vested interests resisting change .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
this means , first and foremost , setting the goal of performance . as a result , the ministers proclaim that street crime will be halved by next spring , or that the share of each generation going to universities is expected to rise to 50 % over the next five years . waiting lists for hospital beds will be slashed by one-third in just two years . this method of governance makes it seem that at long last we can hold policymakers accountable by setting out whether targets have been reached or not . thus , the ministers proclaim that street crime will be halved by next spring , or that the share of each generation going to universities is up to 50 % over the next five years .
this helps explain why , with over half of his term left , the man who led the popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % popularity rating today – the lowest ranking since the 1980 ’s , when democracy was restored . peru ’s president , alejandro toledo , had devised a new , extreme sport , a soccer match in which he was a sole player . instead of kicking a ball to win , his opponent scores aim . toledo assumed that he would dispatch all dishonest officials to jail – words that captured peruvians ’ imagination , whom he craved in order to see criminal politicians brought to justice . peru ’s president alejandro toledo invented a new , extreme sport , a soccer game in which he was the sole player .
a mistake in the us presidential debate may turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened to us president gerald ford during his dealings with jimmy carter in 1976 . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s trade policies were more useful to his effort to recruit supporters than kerry may have been . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debate over carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory . in 2004 , soon before the election of osama bin laden , osama bin laden relaxed a video-tape that may have helped president bush to defeat us senator john kerry . another event likely to turn the tables would be the “ october surprise ” ” ” associated with terrorism , which may shift the agenda from the financial crisis back to safety , republican officials ’ stronger suit .
but i see a practical turning point in all that no one has so far broached . let the us compare two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 , and lugovoi in 2007 . so why not elect a guy like lugovoi , who really represents what the elite stands for ? that search , after all , threatens to divide the nation into an elite . would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance to politics bring about the ideal solution to the problem of searching for putin ?
such thinking represents a grave threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and in general undermining the liberal world order , will severely harm the extreme poor in africa and other under-developed regions , while doing nothing to help coal miners in west virginia . their mythical tribe has been great in some mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? the un sustainable development goal ( sdgs ) to eradicate extreme poverty globally by 2030 depends entirely on continued economic growth via trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . the powerful will always govern , but the weak will bear the brunt of the nostalgic protectionism that erodes the gains from globalization .
others argue that spurring the innovation needed to achieve high-income status requires making the state less like a market participant and more like the referee , the regulator , and the arbiter of economic and social priorities . furthermore , the chinese state has addressed coordination problems , which are neither easy nor cost-effectively handled by decentralized markets , particularly in the developing world , where market institutions and administrative capabilities can be at various stages of development . at the same time , state involvement is necessary to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets alone can not count on . without question , the state has become integral to china ’s development , not only through investment in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions developed . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development .
but economic urgency does not translate into a policy-directed response that has been painfully slow or non-existent . egypt ’s large fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . almost all of egypt ’s political stakeholders , like those in other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform . yet the country ’s ’s leaders were stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund credit . the government ’s ’s reduction in fuel subsidies last year did not follow through on additional reforms , and the required tax increases were delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries finds that , among almost one-half of the reduction in public expenditures , common adjustment measures involve public-sector wage cuts or skult-caps , the withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalizing already meager social-protection systems . such adjustment measures are often adopted without careful consideration of their social impact . how much of the poor will miss out on education , because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children need to work to supplement their family incomes ? and yet , that might very well have happened , too often than not . in fact , these adjustments are often adopted without careful consideration of their social impact .
any steps they take to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists , and they could result in violence from both parties . indeed , germany ’s ’s future might be playing out in two ways . the first scenario is dismal : germany ’s failure to integrate refugees into the country ’s socially and economically , its political discontent surges , and its newcomers have become increasingly frustrated with its plight . the world has a large stake in which a scenario prevails . if , in the worst-case scenario , a terrorist attack occurred – especially one that may , to some extent , join the refugee conflict – potentially weakens the very fabric of german society .
on the other hand , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists – some sitting camels or horse – to charge themselves in cairo ’s tahrir square , and to attack thousands of anti-government demonstrators as the government moves . what is clear is that the interest of the “ “ army ” as an institution ” ” depends on its military ’s ability to establish a much greater disconnect from the regime . what is clear is that the interest of the “ “ army ” as an institution ” ” ” depends on the military ’s ability to establish a much greater disconnect from the regime . at that point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play an increasingly active role in protecting the protesters . successful political transitions also help if more and more citizens come to feel trapped by protest and the resulting transition .
given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or to kowtow to its own tormentors of justice at american courts ) , such a role would have been vulnerable to both an international and domestic political assault . nevertheless , the scale of american cooperation with the icc has been beyond even the constructive role proposed by the obama administration . evidently , american policymakers are becoming increasingly receptive to the potential of the international criminal court ( icc ) to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or to bring its own tormentors to justice in the us courts ) , such a role would have been vulnerable to both an international and domestic political assault . nevertheless , the scale of american cooperation with the icc has exceeded even the constructive role suggested by the obama administration .
part of the reason not to do so is that most americans fail to recognize what works . one poll found that 19 % of americans think that their incomes place them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that a 20 % increase hopes to reach the top 1 % someday . deep within the heart of america ’s ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you do to make with your own hands ; that individuals are supposed to rely on themselves rather than the state ; that people can cross the oceans and mountains in order to ensure a better life for themselves ; and that those that do so do as a result of luck and corruption , rather than through luck and industry preparation . these are not the beliefs that are supposed to be dominated by social democracy , or even in the short term . so why are n’t the americans feeling more alarm in their country ’s rising income inequality ?
the 17 goals range from ending extreme poverty and improving health to protecting the planet ’s ’s ’s ’s biosphere and delivering energy for all . setting our mind , we could be the first in human history to leave our children nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . they have emerged from the largest summit in the un ’s ’s history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the largest consultations that the un has ever undertaken . stockholm – our generation – has a unique opportunity , and we need to do so . that is the course of course the world ’s leaders set when meeting at the un in new york on september 25 to adopt sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) .
when an algorithm does n’t do the job of silencing less-privileged voices , online trolls often take a hit , channeling hateful , and threatening speech at the whomever they choose . for example , german blogger richard gutjahr has become an object of conspiracy theories , and the target of intense harassment , after having been present at two terrorist attacks within two weeks of one another . as a result , noisiest are often rewarded with a “ megaphone , ” while less polarizing , less-privileged voices are being drowned out , even if they provide smart , nuanced perspectives that may actually enrich the public debate . victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and many , with their sense of safety and even self-worth , have been eroded entirely from social media . while women and minorities are especially likely to fall victim to online harassment , anyone might be targeted .
i single out of america not because it is unique in its neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to take the lead . africans do not vote ; they are not buying us products ; they do not jeopardize violence . africans do not vote ; they are not buying us products ; nor do they risk violence . few people in the rich world are doing any better than the u.s. . they are simply poor , starving and disease-ridden people .
krugman is hamstrung by saying that he attributes a crash to “ irrationality ” ” ” that , as cochrane puts it , is no theory at all . on the issue of what caused the crash , the debate is all the more . in my opinion , keynes ’s main contributions to economic theory have been to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness ” of the virtue of knowledge , on which our estimates of the prospective yield must be made . hence , since his inception in 1932 , there can be “ no escaping from prolonged , and perhaps inter-minable depression , ” except through direct state intervention to encourage and subsidize new ” investment – what the obama administration is rightly doing . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and insecurity .
the moral imperative is inimical , because the impact on climate change – including extreme weather , temperature change , and rising sea levels – is felt most keenly by the global poor , who have also benefited the least from the economic activity that it causes . at times , however , the moral rectitude and economic interest merge are presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . indeed , their opportunities sometimes seem to be mutually exclusive , making decisions on which to take an exceedingly challenging approach . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , because the effects of climate change – including extreme weather events , temperature change , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who have also benefited the least from the economic activity that it causes . sometimes , however , the moral rectitude and economic interest merge are presenting an opportunity that need not be missed .
hallyday was the baby of a generation watching an american gis inching into paris , and that invented for itself an american ascendance . abiding in each of us was johnny hnny that moved us all : youth spent with a going act , such as gautier ’s captain fracasse ; his father , the character out of modiano , who , among bouts of drinking , pawned the gifts given to him by his deserted son . and , on that day , there was rocker with the eyes of the assad wolf and cheekbones hewn of giacometti , a catcher in rye mood and melancholy so intensely hopeless that one seems to condemn it as having been living at the edge of any form of overreach . he was the consummate performer of the french scene , the chameleon beamed out of satellite tv , dripping up with the fake swedish and true glitz , an artist who confounded as a way of lies . and then there was the ’60s rocker of rocker with the eyes of assad , and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , a catcher in rye mood and melancholy intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn it to live at the edge of any form of
the keys to this era of growth and happiness constituted a strong social-welfare system , as well as mainly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in all of the world ’s large states . moreover , post-wwii capitalism maintained full employment , with the unemployment rate often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . it was , of course , subject to ups and downs ; but it was not subject to the financial crises of the kind that we saw periodically these days . job insecurity back then fell largely out of date , and the era of mass poverty vanished . first and foremost , each advanced economy pursued policies designed to provide a high level of wages that ensured high consumption and therefore rapid growth .
in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the eu ; no british financial participation in the future european rescue operation would have been forthcoming . this appears to reflect the attitude – expressed by cameron and former ecb chancellor exchequer george osborne – that helped to set the stage for brexit . the us is both interested and connected , but it has not been absorbing . solidarity ( at least the kind of cost money ) stopped at the english channel . but , like de gaulle at the time of his declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity .
in this crisis , american president bush should be able to form a united front with human-rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow through , sustain , and encourage those iranians who have been or perhaps are still being arrested or worse off . what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and on other governments in the future – to reassure and account for the safety of the protesters . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who support the free assembly . natan sharansky argued that this tactic – a western tracking and demanding accountability to treat individual domestic dissenters – helped to disrupt the former soviet union . natan sharansky argued that this tactic – – a western tracking and demanding accountability to treat individual domestic dissenters – helped to disrupt the former soviet union .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to solidify the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . closer ties between russia and the european union make similar reasons . there should also be some insight into what the russian and russian peoples have gone through over the last two decades . russia should be treated as a major power , which implies consultations on vital global issues . russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to bolster the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world .
whatever the case , for key brazilian left leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become a part of the solution , rather than a fundamental problem . the greatest are not always the legal one on which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the business risk of a failing or polity to implodes . the emerging consensus may have reflected the success of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative achievement of the privatization and liberal market economy worldwide , and brazil ’s growth in the middle class . but a broad consensus has emerged in brazil that the left party can neither win nor govern with hard-left visions , and lula ’s presidency has failed to challenge that view . investors , for their part , are taking all sorts of risks .
of course , my reduced costs will be someone else ’s ’s ’s ’s reduced revenues , and not only apple ’s . products will not have to be made in those factories , and then shipped out of customers or into inventory centers . one big loser from this world will be freight entrepreneurship ( along with junkyards , logistics firms , and centralized recycling operations ) . recycled materials need not be delivered in centralized processing centers , and then passed on to factories . my reduced costs , of course , will be someone else of ’s reduced revenues , and not only apple itself .
london – in the 1960s , the green revolution , which included developing high-yielding crop varieties , expanding irrigation infrastructure , and distributing modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers bolstered agricultural output worldwide . yet chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in the developing world , affecting most of them by crop scarcity and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to surpass nine billion , or more than 50 % of the global population . surmounting these challenges will be no easy feat . london – in the 1960s , the green revolution , which included developing higher-yielding crop varieties , expanding irrigation infrastructure , and distributing modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural output worldwide .
indeed , for many years now , domestic critics of erdoğan ’s administration have been denouncing what they describe as an “ putinization ” of the regime . in reality , turkey needs europe just as much as europe needs turkey . turkey , not the european union , currently makes its presence felt around the world . turkey , not the european union , currently makes its presence felt . but , in fact , the course of history can change quickly .
more people have been dying from cervical cancer last year than in fighting it . indeed , last year , 580,000 cancer deaths exceed the roughly 430,000 fighting fatalities , on average , during world war i , world war i , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . that amounts to just over 0.5 % of annual military budgets of about $ 718 trillion . yet government expenditure on cancer averages about $ 4 trillion a year on average . on the other hand , experience indicates that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , like public-health threats , until they get into a crisis .
i hoped that we would have the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and begin looking deep into our national psyche , asking the great question , “ why have the 15 of our young men attacked america in so brutal a fashion ? ” dealing with that question is becoming more frustrating to me , because i ran out of plausible explanations . a journalist visiting saudi arabia recently asked me why five of the six students i interviewed at the university of king saud still believe that al qaida were not responsible for the attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon in the americas last year ? i used to believe that the denial of the saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our hardship with what happened on that dark day . so far , the us is nowhere closer than it was after an assault on response to that question , because we can not even find any nerve to ask .
top incomes in these countries have stemmed largely from political patronage , rather than from innovation and hard work . that is why the knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” ” ” ” ” prescription for more liberalization and privatization is unsuitable for the arab world in 2012 . whereas tunisia was an extreme case in the regime furthering the economic interests of a tiny insiders , that pattern has been widespread . moreover , income inequality has widened , with the global phenomenon of rising wealth concentration at the very top highly pronounced in many arab countries . there is an obvious political necessity for a growth strategy in which inclusiveness is the centerpiece , rather than an afterthought .
germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , implying that it is acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by the major us trade partners . but this is no longer the case , either . indeed , trump ’s recent overtures are not only about trade , but of america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s departure from the pax americana itself . trump ’s protectionist policies therefore call into question the entire german economic model as it has existed since the end of the 1950s . few countries are closer to the postwar order than germany , which , like japan ’s , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to the rules-based us trading system .
france has some of the top hourly labor costs in the eu , and the natural effect is tepid hiring . part of the challenge for the unemployment challenge is assigned to hidden costs , which must be addressed . during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , it should focus on boosting france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % annually , and on reducing the unemployment rate to less than 6 % . with inequality , too , too many french are justifiably agitated that labor is being taxed far more than capital gains . part of the unemployment challenge is assigned to hidden expenses .
if low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will be running out of cash by late 2016 . yet collapsing oil prices , combined with tough american and european economic sanctions , mean that , by the end of last month , the government is forecasting a 4 % shortfall in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , and that after a budget cut worth 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that , by the end of this year , russia spends 70 % of gdp on reserves accrued over the past decade , or at a time when oil prices were high . in early december , putin signed the us federal budget in 2015 that foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . yet putin ’s approval rating remains at about 80 % .
given that libra will take the form of private money linked to a basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ? but , of course , libra is currently selling as much more than it does . if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with just one touch of their smartphones , then do n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first sign of trouble in the domestic economy ? as one facebook executive puts it , the us wants to dispatch its money to be just as simple as sending a text message . a standard “ efficient market ” analysis does n’t help us answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting .
should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose their trust in america ’s financial assets at some point , a rising europe will help to shield european-style interest rates from the consequences . the yield on ten-year german bond yields , which may have been expected to remain higher , owing to the deterioration of inflationary expectations during this period , has barely moved . more recently , rising europe helped to leave the european federal reserve ’s long-term interest rate — the key determinant of us economic activity — because inflationary expectations worsened somewhat in the euro-zone region . during april , the rise of inflationary expectations and the euro ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s appreciation had occurred more or less in the same period . this is large plus for the sustaining economic recovery .
the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to abolish the union ’s 1707 act , with the future to be determined by the 2014 scottish referendum . when stressed , large surface bifurcates in large france , but then the disintegration continues into smaller , smaller fragments . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful diversity of small , medium-size political units . of the six greater eu member states , only france has a de facto well-defined , centralized political system . of the six larger eu states , there is only france with a genuinely well-defined , centralized political system . this political entity is the precision political world ’s counterpart to the familiar physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring .
just as we follow our leaders ’ orders to fight and die , owing to the confidence of their judgment , entrust with our careers and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs , and other such banks , because we believe that their leaders will be just as equitable as their employees and clients , and honorable in their business practices . money , therefore , is about trust without which no society can function . we do not grow up wishing to work for crooks and human beings . we do not grow up with wishing to work for crooks and liars . just as we follow our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trust their judgment , devoting our careers and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs , and other such banks because we believe that their leaders will be just as equitable as their employees and clients , and honorable in their business practices .
he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to a compromise rather than a rage – in sharp contrast , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . likewise , far from fitting the democratic machine ’s mold , sanders works to pull the party back “ back ” toward the social democratic left where it belongs . despite rising to power with kgb support , he failed to surrender his thought processes to that machine , in the ways that president vladimir putin apparently possesses . ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s 21fied structure could not be saved ; but , thanks largely to gorbachev ’s own fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . like hillary clinton and sanders , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer .
that leaves developing countries facing a hard choice : will they really be better off accepting the crumbs offer to them ? unsurprisingly , rich countries ’ negotiators are shedding around large numbers when describing the gains of even an imperfect deal . those in the developing world who believe that there has been a history of bargaining in bad faith have a powerful case in mind . whatever economics , taking this route may be harder today than before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates can sanction governments that accept what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trading deal . america ’s ’s agricultural subsidies are just what is needed .
princeton – more recently , physicists in the great hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva at the organization for nuclear research ( cern ) – announced that the celebrated discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson was actually the higgs boson . the latter-day nostradamuses have incited widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , of high power particle physics experiments . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete , with the exception of one important thing : the black holes . four years ago , the doomsayers forecast that the shc would produce the microscopic black holes that would devour the earth in a matter of months . of course , these prophets have been neither the first nor the last of their species .
during the democratization process of the 1980s and 1990 ’s , successive governments attempted to tame the hyper-inflation rate , which peaked at 2,477 % in 1993 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concern about price stability . today , with central bankers in the developed world fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond to widespread fears of a slowdown and a return to high inflation . in fact , monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . in fact , during the democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments tried to tame the hyper-inflation rate that had reached 2,477 % in 1993 . the introduction of the “ real plan , ” ” which started in 1994 , in order to suppress annual price growth to an “ acceptable ” ” ” 22 % below the following year .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s ’s world economic forum was grim . against the backdrop of the subprime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the us stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they did a short time earlier . and it was not only those bankers who were at the davos games this year ; they were also their regulators – central bankers . those who think that globalization , technology , and a market economy would sort out the world ’s ’s problems , they seem subdued . most chastened out of all of them were bankers .
now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone ’s periphery , government defaults are threatening to overtake the large us banks . the european central bank has provided ample emergency “ liquidity ” to the banks , which it uses to purchase an even larger amount of government debt . this holds down interest rates on that short-term debt , but it generates even larger potential losses in the event of a potential default . diamond has discovered that , ultimately , politicians of trump ’s bankers are – at least in the united kingdom – – – – – – – – – are now being intertwined with the financial crisis . the banks and politicians are deeply intertwined in any advanced economy in the advanced economies .
provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy , including by improving health-care access , financial services , and education , brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic infrastructure investment since the 1980s has become an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to wasteful and inefficiencies in existing manufacturing systems . moreover , despite low average growth rates , those at the bottom quintile of the us population grew at an annual rate of just over 6 % in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social-welfare policies . this could be addressed by fine-tuning labor divisions in infrastructure investment and public-sector governance , with crowding in the latter .
according to the most recent figures running through july or august for most countries , nearly two-thirds of all countries recorded the inflation rate as large as 10 % . between the 2020s and august , the share of countries recording outright deflation in terms of consumer prices ( the greens line ) is higher in 2015 than it was for countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of gdp ) . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and even a handful of african countries comprise the rest of the world . venezuela ( which failed to disclose the official inflation statistics earlier this year ) and argentina ( which failed to loosen reliable inflationary data for a few years ) figure prominently within that group . according to the most recent data running through july or august for most countries , there are only 14 case for high inflation ( the red line in france ) .
for the most part , the quick fixes that have been imposed so far have not been very successful . on the european continent , this has been happening since the great 1970s . overcrowded classes in often lack the necessary facilities have led to ever-longer periods of study , degradation of class size , and a lot of unhappiness among students and faculty alike . in the absence of sufficient funding , one can simply allow universities to deteriorate worse off . on the european continent , this has been happening since the great 1970s .
two million kosovars endured by milosevic ’s rule in any aspect of their lives , from basic security to education . as a political activist in the closing days of yugoslavia , i attempted to build up the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . the need for kosova to free itself from milosevic ’s grip has been so apparent for the entire decade . for years , they have sought to voice their grievances through peaceful means . only the bloodshed of war , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain .
at the same time , nation-building efforts along secular lines mirrored egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and syrian ba’ath party , the result of the establishment of the united arab republic , a union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world stemmed from neither political tendencies , instead reflecting widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional , corrupt authoritarian governments . tunisia adopted its new constitution , on january 27 , thereby clearing the way for what will become the most secular , fairest elections in any region in the region . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt ’s return to its military and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was its sole success . the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , established in 1928 .
berlin – how we consume in the industrialized world is proving to be unsound , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , about 300 million tons of meat are produced annually , and the un food and agriculture organization estimates that annual gdp will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at its current pace . such huge amounts of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale and at a high level of social , political , and ecological cost . berlin – the way we consume in the industrialized world – is unsound , unjust , and unsustainable . and now our industrial model of meat production is exporting to the global south – namely , india and china – where meat consumption continues to rise among these countries ’ emerging middle class .
cambridge – for some time now , the four horsemen of america ’s macroeconomic policymaking came from taxation , regulation , business , and infrastructure . having studied the first in detail , i found tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . a third area is highly relevant , which is precisely why today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s trade tensions are so daunting . the fourth area exists only through rhetoric : an infrastructure program currently is not some piece of a macroeconomic policy repertoire . while i have regarded the latter area in less detail , the evidence indicates that regulation is , at best , just a minor contributor to growth .
chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk . but there will come at a time when this tailwind subsides , and china begins to converge on the so-called “ frontier ” of advanced economies . at that point , china will confront the same productivity challenges that confront both america and the rest of the world . as gordon observes , long-run productivity dividends linked to urbanization have occurred , a trend that could continue for at least at least another decade in china . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle .
on the other hand , the us oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan , as well as an agreement with bond holders issued by puerto rico ’s urgent interest fund firms ( cofina ) that could place the island on a debt straitjacket indefinitely . the sad fact is that the window of opportunity for puerto rico ’s fiscal boat has not materialized . but the plan has been projected to deflate economic activity even further , and it has failed to establish an adequate basis for calculating just how much debt restructuring puerto rico would have to pass . at $ 17.8 trillion , the stock of cofina bonds ( backed by the future sales-tax revenues ) accounts for over one-third of the new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , which is premised on the unrealistic assessment of commonwealth countries ’ economic conditions .
ten years on , what impact has had on the displaced people ’s lives ? the achievements are notable when they are not enough . we have raised awareness of the plight of the displaced , brought about changes in us government policies and raised billions of dollars in response to their fundamental needs . this , in turn , has helped to save the lives of countless lives . the humanitarian effort remains reinvigorated , including through a fast new funding mechanism , the un central emergency response fund .
we can tailor that judgment to a man or a woman who wears an extra $ 30,000 watch , or to buy similar luxury goods , like the equivalent of a $ 12,000 handbag . essentially , such a person is said ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or just plain selfish . ” andrew carnegie , the wealthiest man of veblen ’s era , was blunt in his moral judgments . wearing a watch that costs an extra 200 times as many times as many times as many jobs to keep time says something else , even when worn off by those who are not being governed by a relatively poor country . andrew carnegie , the wealthiest man of veblen ’s era , was blunt in his moral judgments .
in this monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit calls into question an almost universally assumed idea : the first two volumes of volumes in 2011 , whereas a third , in the press when parfit dies , has only just emerged . by contrast , parfit argued that desires may be irrational . he demonstrates that both “ “ total ” and above-average answers have a paradoxical or counter-intuitive impact . but then there are every other response , which has been proposed since parfit revived , and other philosophers have begun offering their own solutions . if reasons and humans could easily have been three separate books , on what issues really are : the first two volumes in 2011 , while a third , in the press when parfit dies , has just emerged .
furthermore , we need to reduce our mental health inequity , a frequently ignored issue . seeking mental-health care should be just as routine and unimpressive as seeking treatment for high levels of blood pressure , diabetes , or even heart condition . there are some innovative approaches to tackling this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s friendship bench , and i look ahead to learn more about this project , partly owing to the scarcity of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . by acknowledging the mental health and wellness issues of work , we can make a difference in our homes , schools , and communities just as well . this often challenges the problem of lower-income communities , where populations may be at greater risk of pathology and often confront the greatest barriers to receiving care , partly owing to the scarcity of specialized resources available in wealthier areas .
experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack , owing to a dubai takeover , is small . but the harm inflicted by an attack might be enormous , because ports are thought to be one of several ways that might smuggle nuclear weapons in the us . because of this , americans can not afford to take even an minutest of their chances with their seaports , the consequences of error become all too staggering to the contemplate . the american public understands this even if their president does not . should the harm inflicted by a terrorist strike also be small , too .
but the four political developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into a high-level summit in its own right . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates has revived the debate over transatlantic burden and solidarity within the alliance . first , the revolutions in the arab world and nato ’s military interventions in libya have returned the alliance ’s attention toward the middle east and north african countries . second , the international financial crisis will have an enormous impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates has revived a debate on transatlantic burden-sharing and intra-alliance solidarity .
can we really count on these farmers , many of whom are desperately poor , take a leadership role in solving the twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ? yet smallholders can not be ignored when it comes to an climate-change solution : worldwide , one-sixth of the half-billion tiny farms account for about 60 % of global agriculture production , and provide up to about 80 % of global food supplies in the developing world . collectively , they govern the vast areas of our planet , including 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . we are confident that the answer to both questions represents a resounding yes yes . can we really count on these farmers , many of whom are desperately poor , to take the lead in tackling the twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ?
one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from making investment in more than 40 industries , designated as a critical component of the us government ’s national security situation . that ban , while benefiting from industry insiders , has reduced russia ’s access to financial markets , and , more critical , new technologies that follow from financial flows . lifting these constraints would not only provide an immediate boost to the economy , but also boosting long-term gdp growth . the financial sanctions following russia ’s imposition of forced “ reunification ” with ” crimea in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , owing to the country ’s own move to retaliate : a plethora of sweeping trade restrictions , including the outright bans on us food imports from the european union and america .
during the brexit negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the brexit referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clause when leaders in france and germany continue to be deeply hesitant about eu enlargement . during the brexit negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clause in may ’s decision to move toward ever-closer union with the eu . but the uk ’s support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to embrace the eu ’s long-stated objective of engaging with ever-closer union in order to prevent a deepening of european integration . the eu ’s relationship with the eu has always been rather fraying . it should prevail in a referendum and persuade voters to remain , send a dangerous signal to eastern europe ’s illiberal politicians .
business majors should study the economic and political history needed to avoid becoming a blind , determinists . business majors should study the economic and political history needed to avoid becoming a blind , determinists . and law students should be focusing on a mix of large data and human rights , helping them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . business majors should study the economic and political history of avoiding becoming a blind , determinists . and law students should be focusing on a mix of big data and human rights , helping them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted .
severe breaches can result from reprimands , or dismissals of dismissals . in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with the writers and producers themselves . sporadic complaints and warnings from above allow them to evolve an intuitive sense of the boundaries of permissible content , so they generate evidence that free of offending material from the very beginning . the top-down hierarchy is both autocratic and arbitrary ; the bottom lines have little collaborative inputs and no appeal right . in effect , the system has become mostly self-regulating .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s decision to extend the diet ’s current session on 95 days is to be completed , until 9/11 , making for the longest continuous session in japan ’s parliament ’s postwar history . for the past 39 years , japanese representatives from the g7 have been focusing on economic discussion at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots and recommend action , or , more often , inaction . but the summit has shown that japan no longer intends to rise to the diplomatic sidelines . the reason is obvious : abe is bent on passing a set of national-security bills that allows the country to play an even larger role not only in enhancing his own security , but also in advancing world peace . tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s decision to extend the fed ’s current session for more than 95 days , until september 27 – makes for the longest continuous session in japan ’s parliament ’s postwar history .
in germany ’s parliament , chancellor of the exchequer announced that yeltsin , following through on his operation , would “ renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more pressing , such as nato enlargement … and i have been able to reach an agreement with president bill clinton , president chirac , and prime minister majestically that we will now refrain firmly from dealing with an important matter of nato-eu enlargement in some of the framework so that moscow does not feel that we feel that we are not forming a fiat comi . ” in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato placed enlargement at bay until the arrival of a russian and american presidential election passed . this visit yielded yet another appeal not to rush nato enlargement . it instructed the ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , suggesting that the talks are not left with the hand of nato machinery on its own . in germany ’s parliament , chancellor of the exchequer announced that yeltsin would “ renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgent , like nato enlargement … and have been able . ”
at the same time , these changes are triggering shifts in the human consciousness of the past . but , as with any change of such a magnitude , there are holdouts . the result is a “ post-utopian ” litany of values , featuring a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and individual responsibility . this alone , fogel believes , can explain the recent longevity trends , the body size , the durability of its vital organs , and its chronic illness . in this world free of utopia , there is the supreme good for individual liberty .
so far , eurozone leaders need to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . so far , many questions have been answered for design ; implementation will at least be as daunting as it is . london – the severity of the euro crisis – has finally sunk in . governments and international financial institutions have scrambled to place the solution in exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . at present , the stakes could not be higher .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , – while much of the developed world is properly concerned about myriad privacy outrages at great tech hands and demanding – and hedged – for individuals a good thing , ” ” ” many around the world are posing a very different question : what about the right to be seen ? after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
drug-related violence has consumed the untold numbers of casualties in afghanistan , burma , colombia , afghanistan , the united states , and mexico . health professionals have taken the lead in printing the government – through the mechanisms of outright democracy – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users to public-health policies based on the scientific evidence on what works . the swiss has investigated their government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s drug policies with a pragmatic eye . the swiss have implemented methadone programs , and , in order to prevent the spread of hiv , it has created needle exchanges , including in prisons , and has established large-scale security injection rooms . likewise , the swiss federal public-health office has overseen an experiment in prescribing the heroin to which people have been living with opiate dependency for a significant period .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence ( ai ) will have on well-functioning us economies and labor markets has long been a hot topic . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets is its ability to earn enormous returns in high-impact returns in high-speed trading , by being the micro-second “ ahead ” of all others . but jerusalem ’s recent book humans need not apply : the guide to riches and employment in the age of artificial intelligence has impressed me with the true size of the socioeconomic stakes . another is the price-discrimination capacity of new electronic market makers such as uber , which is thus fitting every penny on the old us consumer surplus by microeconomic theory . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on markets ’ workings is its ability to earn enormous returns in high-speed trading by being a micro second “ ahead ” of everyone else .
to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . in a world of scarce resources , policymakers need to prioritize investment , including by differentiating the critical imperative . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available fresh water at home , and more than twice that of many , say , a whopping $ 4.5 trillion – a whopping $ 4.5 trillion – lack safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available fresh water at home , and more than twice that – a whopping $ 4.5 trillion – lack managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important .
firms in all industries now need to invest in understanding new technologies , so that they are ready to seize opportunities , or mount efficient defenses quickly . moreover , disruptive technology creates value for the shift among the economic sectors , as occurred when television overtook radio , or , more recently , online media acquired predominance over print . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , and continually evaluate how innovations will influence the status quo , precisely their for-profit pools . this is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than electricity usage . indeed , large corporations in almost every field are vulnerable , because start-ups are becoming better equipped , more competitive , and competent , like larger firms , to reach buyers and users everywhere .
over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed nearly two billion more people adequately – no small feat . over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed nearly two billion more people adequately – no small feat . though the developing world had 1.7 billion fewer people than it was in 1991 , there were 209 million starving today . by 2013 , the share had dropped to just 13.5 % . the challenge amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high-level aspirations into concrete goals .
ultimately , the 1832 reform act abolished the rotten boroughs and extended franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . the greed and corruption of that era were satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : the narrative of today . fifteen people were killed , and many more injured in what was remembered as the peterson massacre . back then , given the recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite grudgingly agreed to democratizing the reforms . likewise , the united states , too , went even if an era of robin hood in industrialization in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s .
but , thanks to nigel farage – and farage , who took over the governing conservative party ’s governing conservative party – an economic self-harm act that clearly runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . whereas the vanquished remain side waged an economic campaign centered on fears of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave party waged a culture war by flashy immigration fears and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ” narrow-minded nationalism is not simply the british malady : throughout the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , lacking a human face , and akin to an uncontrolled runaway train . yet , thanks to nigel farage – and farage , who took over the governing conservative party ’s governing conservative party – an economically harmful act that clearly runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . moderate leaders everywhere must now respond not only to economic discontent with the millions losing out , but also to the cultural pessimism and dismissal of politicians as being “ in it only ” for themselves ” – that gives succor populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk .
the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws containing conflict and duplications . it has been successful because of strong public support in the fight against corruption . the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws containing conflicts and duplications . the survey of current laws and regulations finds that many are internally contradictory and overlapping . the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws containing conflicts and duplications .
how , then , did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ? one year ago , everyone assembled in kyiv ’s streets recognized what we stood for : the corrupt government , which seeks to command lives and labor , and dispose of state assets , at its will . in order to the extent that formal legal rights existed , no court could ever have relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their interests as being challenged . instead , those who benefited from the regime = s corruptions insisted that their property rights had been inviolate . in fact , how did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ?
for children receiving atole children , the risk of stunting dropped by more than one-half . another community nearby had the same program , with the exception that micronutrient added is delivered without a protein . they remained in school longer hours , learned more , on average , on cognitive testing in adulthood , and more likely to enter higher-paid , skilled jobs . another community nearby had the same program , with the help of micronutrient addition to the provision of protein added without a protein . moreover , health workers visited mothers during pregnancies and granted free medical services .
instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the country , the coalition ’s members blamed one another . from day one , the coalition was riven by the feuds . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting between the reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power . such squabbling , it appears , is the postcommunist malady . in fact , ministers have been behaving like opponents rather than partners .
the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets in order to protest macron ’s proposed “ fuel-tax increases ” are animated not by a utopia of despair . though the economy performed at full employment , it rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopiades , marches , and stone hurtling . in that sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike the french brexit act , in which it amounts to the firing act at the height of a shooting oneself . whereas the british had resorted to the ballot box , the french accepted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone hurtling . they joined the well-organized trade union , which helped the movement reach critical massacres , at least temporarily .
she feels that , in acting as she has done , she has been true of her most cherished values and beliefs . she feels that , in acting as she has done , she has been true of her most cherished values and beliefs . and she has little doubt that the west , in response to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , has avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . she worries about early human-rights violations , particularly women ’s rights , that she fears will multiply . and she has little doubt that , in response to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , she has avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa .
facing escalating geopolitical competition with america , china is scrambling to win friends in the region . as the largest us trading partner for numerous asian countries , china will offer an attractive set of trade terms to its neighbors , much as it has done with singapore . while china ’s charm offensive is extremely recent , its contours are already becoming apparent . over the past six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , embracing the eu ’s containment strategy . the most prominent feature , then , is trade .
london – on january 1 , 2010 , i suppose myself that the play will soon be up for the greeks . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in anticipation of yield when its value drops . i borrow at face value of € 10 million from the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , out of goldman sachs for six months . a speculator may “ short ” the government by borrowing its debt at its current price , hoping to sell it later at a lower price , and pocketing the difference . london – “ shorting ” – is a tactic well known among the finance cognoscenti .
in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” by online news media , demanding that the government establish a regulatory framework for this unruly new sector . jordan ’s diverse tribal composition was mirrored in newly established web sites , some in the form of tacit support , and even funding – from the security agencies or any other official or political group . moreover , a large number of people launched news web sites exclusively for financial gain . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried any potentially harmful rumors about online news media , and demanded that the government establish a regulatory framework for this unruly new sector . indeed , the lack of restrictions allowed for dubious journalistic practice to flourish .
other leaders declared that the un should not abandon its mission . the poison of terrorism has now been hijacked by the un ’s humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its iraqi mission ’s headquarters in afghanistan . dozens of innocent human beings have been killed , including one of the world ’s most accomplished accomplished accomplished , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush reiterated his determination to wage the war on terrorism . yet the bombing raises the political questions that are demanding answers .
now russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia from abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . to the extent that most residents of abkhazia and south ossetia have already accorded russian citizenship , the recognition of the two regions ’ sovereignty claims would be entirely fictitious and , indeed , an interim measure of the route to russia ’s total annexation of crimea . but they are indeed illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to grant russian passports to those regions ’ inhabitants attests . to the extent that most residents of abkhazia and south ossetia have already received russian citizenship , recognition of the two regions ’ sovereignty claims would be entirely fictitious and , indeed , an interim measure of how to their full annexation by russia . while there has been no breaks of gas supplies from tbilisi to south ossetia , that step is necessary for the kremlin to secure the even greater integration of georgia into russia ’s economic system .
and they were persuaded that , despite hitler ’s odd behavior and appearances , he remained the best defense against communism . so long as trump is good at making business , they seem untroubled by the single greatest threat to america ’s soul and values , and to its image and interests abroad . the sad reality is that many nowadays ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history , and think and act as if interests and values are totally disconnected from one another in the real world . back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves in thinking that they could dominate their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s odd behavior and appearance , he remains the best defenses against communism .
not only will it generate the administrative burden through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that new rules undermine many of europe ’s most prominent online firms . industries have revenues more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as overall european economies have stagnated . even more worryingly , this would open the door to provisions outlawing the benevolent , low-risk data mining that is driving online advertisements . the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s privacy crackdown risks undermining all of this . online advertising allows eu citizens to access information , educational material , commercial channels , and entertainment sites without paying them directly , with the amounts being spent in europe rising fast .
but , when reusable sanitary pads and education on menstruation have been delivered to girls in eight schools , attendance has risen by about 17 % , on average , global-health communities must work together to address the menstrual needs of women and girls everywhere ; there is no one-size-fits-all solution to the global problem . a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda , for example , found that adolescent girls often miss out on their school , owing to their lack of access to clean sanitary products . today , bloody good times donates sanitary products – including ipads and tampons – as well as diapers and toiletries , to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers each month . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . but the silence surrounding the natural menstruation process must be broken , so that women and girls can acquire the sanitary products that they need at an affordable price .
for morsi , the dilemma was that a constitutional court could strike down a law , rendering the effort meaningless . for morsi , the dilemma was that a constitutional court could strike down a law , rendering the effort meaningless . but , for many revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack an tainted prosecutor and clean up the judiciary . morsi ’s “ “ constitutional ” declaration was a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and therefore politically costly – step toward breaking the impasse . indeed , he already backed twice : once in july 2012 , having abandoned his efforts , under pressure from the supreme council of the armed forces , to reinstate an elected parliament ; and , once trying to step down egypt ’s public prosecutor by making egypt a holy see .
the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . in foreign-policy terms , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed a revival of the monroe doctrine – a nineteenth-century assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to hold out european competitors – in central and south america to curb china ’s rising influence . moreover , it amounts to a betrayal of america ’s longstanding commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that is discouraging a competitive currency devaluations . tillerson ’s nostalgia for the 1823 border was not shared south of the us , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine “ “ served to justify the gringo ” interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us . its nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , as well as deploying new , low-yield ” nuclear facilities to deliver on an submarine equivalent to those that devastated hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such arrangements will prove futile in managing capital flows . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting the collective challenges associated with macroeconomic-policy spillovers and , in turn , providing insurance against crises . at the same time , the governance architecture of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed to enhance their legitimacy in emerging markets . policymakers in both advanced and emerging-market countries should focus on underlying failures that are destabilizing their economies and impeding growth , rather than attempting to treat symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . likewise , in other emerging markets , the key challenge now is to ensure that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance shared goals .
the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the spillover of the displaced labor . though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , american leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , far less implementing effective countermeasures . the economic challenges facing developed-country middle classes are largely the product of two factors : rapid white losses – and the blue-collar , low-end jobs to automation and a shift in middle - and lower-value-added , lower-value-added economy to lower-income countries . a decline in labor ’s bargaining power and falling real minimum wages may also have contributed to rising inequality , even though these are perhaps secondary factors . the economic challenges facing developed-country middle classes are largely the product of two factors : rapid white lost – and blue-collar – jobs to automation and a shift in middle-- and lower-value-added , lower-income countries .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the upcoming leadership change at an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 – probably succeed mario draghi as president – provides an important opportunity to heed that call . zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn – echoed his call for the european central bank to conduct the long-overdue revision of its policy framework . the upcoming leadership change at an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 – is likely to succeed mario draghi as president – provides an important opportunity to heed that call . zurich – finland ’s former central bank governor , olli , reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct the long-overdue revision of its policy framework .
the goal of making the continent peaceful , whole , and free has been largely realized . one factor is vladimir putin ’s willingness and ability to demonstrate ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance his agenda . for decades , europe constituted the world ’s most prosperous , stable , and predictable region , a place in which history seemed to have all but to an end . yet a dramatic change has now arrived in europe . such scenarios have been unimaginable , until only recently .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of many planned infrastructure projects worldwide that are officially viewed as environmentally sound , despite posing severe environmental risks . building , for example , is almost complete on a railway line , through kenya ’s famous national park , despite public outrage at the “ incomplete , incompetent ” environmental impact assessment . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
such measures succeeded in many ways : monetary expansion played a major role in pulling the economy back from the edge . but , over time , the capacity of central banks to influence the real economy to influence the real economy declined . nowadays , and for the foreseeable future , domestic inflation has become increasingly affecting the global economy , rather than local , developments , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy are far more influential than monetary policy . after all , unlike in other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereigns , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination . for the ecb , that generates an especially grave challenge .
today , the fastest-growing major cities are in asia . beijing is roughly 10 ° c hotter than the nearby countryside in the daytime , and 5.5 ° c hotter at night . looking at a fast-growing town like houston , texas , we can see the true impact of a urban heat island . in august , temperatures have climbed 12.5 oc above the nearby countryside , reaching a 40oc – a scorching heat that has affected not only the downtown region , but also covering some 8,000 square kilometers . there is an even more dramatic increase in tokyo , too .
a rising minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . a rising minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . and , as coworkers began to exercise themselves collectively , enlightened employers came to view such recreation as a precious source of physical and mental well-being . gyms of one ’s brow were no longer linked to productive work ; but , with consumption – often a conspicuous form of consumption . seeing these changes happening , some people have been seeing , and worried about them .
some , like the danish people ’s party , are keen to follow the united kingdom ’s lead , holding a vote on eu membership . others are keen to flee the european union , block the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or limit labor mobility . the eu ’s ’s refugee displacement scheme has proven to be particularly divisive . according to the european council on foreign relations , there are 32 referenda in 18 of the eu countries . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on the proposed quotas .
but american exports are other nations ’ imports , which is why obama ’s argument amounts to telling others that they can lose jobs . he has repeatedly said that exports are a good thing for the u.s. : create jobs . he needs to remind americans that imports are also a good thing : they can also be asked their audience to think about jobs in cargo transport equipment , freight trains , and trucks doing business imports into the american hinterland . yet america ’s exports are other nations ’ imports , which is why obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose out . from the outset of his presidency , obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s trade defenses have been inadequate .
usury ( making money from money ) was an act of offense against god . it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . it was now thought that the healthily promethean of turning wealth into money , putting it into work to make more money , because by doing that one benefits humanity . this inspired the american way of life , where money invariably talks .
that pattern persists throughout central and eastern europe , where governments have also opted to imprison drug users as well . rather than focusing on the treatment that works , the polish government has chosen to give priority to long-standing rehabilitation centers located in the countryside , which have little , if any , to do with evidence-based medicine . that pattern persists throughout central and eastern europe , where governments have also opted to imprison drug users as well . by driving their users underground , criminalization is contributing to a deepening public-health crisis . likewise , poland has opted for treatment of even the smallest volume of drug being criminal , as demonstrated by the fact that 60 % of people condemned for drug-related possession in poland are marijuana smokers .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments of the fed ’s performance no longer explainable through fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of that policy are becoming increasingly visible and become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 excessively loose monetary policy . financial markets are awash with liquidity , which means that governments are awash in the midst of a great recession . key interest rates have remained near or near zero for six years now .
nato is developing its ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territory against its grave and growing threat . in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union , and many others to police major sea-lanes under threat from pirates . and , in countries around the world , it carries tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising on how to bring military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to avoid harm to its children . threats have shifted and become more global . nato is developing its ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territories against its grave and growing threat .
china ’s dependence on fossil fuels left it at a deep environmental hole , yet its leaders are determined to climb out . describing the shift to electric vehicles as a job murderer , trump has advocated an end to federal subsidies that spur domestic development , manufacture , and purchase , like the $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit . and , anticipating an eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are offering generous domestic manufacturing subsidies . meanwhile , the trump administration seems intent on turning back the clock , by betting on the resuscitation of the dying – and lethal – fossil-fuel industry . and , anticipating an eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are offering generous domestic manufacturing subsidies .
the measure may also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , making it slightly perilous . it would , for example , necessitate calculating the tax equivalent of a regulatory cap . but calculating the appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice in practice . moreover , a tobin tax probably would have regressive distributional consequences , hurting the poor countries the most . provided it is indiscriminate , such border pricing would enhance the global welfare state and be compatible with world trade organization rules .
moreover , article 138 would enable unified european representation at the international monetary fund and the world bank . if all eurozone members took part , article 136 of the eu treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to encourage their action.the extent to which this is lent out , which says that “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ [ europe ” ] council of [ european ] member states will … adopt measures specific to [ european ] eu member states , ” ” ” ” and that “ only [ european member states … are willing to participate in a vote – are high . ” ideally , such cooperation would occur within the framework of eu institutional frameworks . the group could then expand cooperation to three other types of policy areas : the grouping could then expand cooperation to three more than three areas of the eu .
for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland has countered that circumcision is an element of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill sums up the contravention of [ of ] religious liberty . ” and agnes m. sigurðóttir , iceland ’s bishop of iceland , have warned that ban effectively would turn judaism and islam into non-criminalized religions , ” because anyone practicing female circumcision can be subjected to six years in prison . for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center countered that circumcision is an element of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill sums up the contravention of religious liberty . complicating matters further , the two sides are basing their arguments on human rights . some ban ’s supporters , for example , have argued that violates circumcision ’s article 5 of the universal declaration on human rights ( the udhr ) , which specifies that “ nobody is subjected to torture or brutal , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . ”
but policy analysts can not limit themselves to conventional instruments of nuclear deterrence , sanctions , and denial , because they evaluate options for deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also pay attention to entanglement mechanisms and norms . entanglement can change the cost-benefit calculus of a major state like china ’s , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea that is weakly connected to the global economy . to be sure , entering into any networked adversary and disrupting attacks poses the risk of escalation . “ persistent engagement ” may , however , advocate deterrence in such difficult times .
moreover , if the eu wants the eu to emerge stronger from the crisis , it also must strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , absent growth and higher employment levels , the eurozone ’s problems can not be addressed . affirming an even more rigorous , more rigorous stability pact is also the imperative of achieving greater integration . here , the eu summit in december produced an important step forward with respect to deepening political union and boosting governance among the eurozone ’s member states . still , more will be necessary to restore financial stability , for example , by enlarging the overall firepower of the european financial stability facility . moreover , if the eu wants the eu to emerge from the crisis , it also must strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , absent growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s problems can not be addressed .
shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , asset developers , and small - and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . in 2007 , america ’s shadow-banking transaction volume surpassed that of conventional banking assets . it is ultimately financed through retail bank deposits , bank of china ’s wealth-management products , and private capital . the financial stability board projected that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to $ 67 trillion , with america accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone as a whole , $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom up to $ 9 trillion . in 2007 , america ’s shadow-banking transactions exceeded that of conventional banking assets .
in 2011 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the strong commitment of the international community . in 2011 , he asserted that only the two sides are ’ willingness to secure a successful outcome . yet obama himself bears a large share of the blame , and he is also clear . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are few factors worth considering : the rise of the number of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the conventional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between the difficult allies and intransigent opponents ; and major political differences among a centrist us president and the us congress that are dominated more than ever by an increasingly extreme mindset . clearly , the us can not do much to resolve the conflict .
but it can be exceedingly good news for any developing country that fosters an fruitful rebalancing of inward investment , as well as local entrepreneurship , and uses proceeds of export-led growth to invest in infrastructure and skills . in the future , that kind of trade will probably become less significant . china ’s ’s ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without labor-cost differentials initially . with wages in china now rising fast , its labor-costs have been fast diminishing . as economists like mit ’s david autor have shown , the impact of this in advanced countries can be both bad news for some workers and corporate earnings .
a prolonged period of low fertility means that china ’s ’s ’s population is aging , and working-age population growth is slowing . but population-based data , released by the national bureau of statistics , indicate that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , and the un ’s just-published report , world fertility patterns 2009 revises china as a percentage of gdp to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low - and middle-income countries . nowadays , most demographic predictions for china are rooted in the country ’s total birth rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – that is , to be sure , within the next 20 years . can – and should – anything be done , especially in a country that is ’s per capita fertility rate , slowing that trend ? beijing – just how rapid is china ’s population aging , and what does a smaller share of the working-age population mean for the country ?
likewise , many then switched to inflation targeting ; but they tend to miss those targets even more often than advanced countries do . the problem with such monetary-policy targeting approaches is that , while a special numerical target may be reasonable when it is set , the ensuing unexpected developments often make the goal hard to live with each other . after the monetarist approach failed , some moved toward targeting an inflationary level . but , at the same time , they repeatedly miss out on their targets . until the reserve currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging-market and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone needs to develop sovereign-debt insolvency procedures as rapidly as possible , preventing other sovereigns from turning into creditor banks through some form of debt mutualization . in fact , the dangers now facing europe as a consequence of socializing debts far outweigh those implied by simply potential financial crises . unless this wisdom is heeded , holding europe together will be impossible . if europe ’s national governments are keen to help one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally deliver humanitarian assistance , free of conditionality , and no redemption whatsoever . allowing one another to emerge from the greek debacle will no longer be a friend to watch .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him in the white house , describing him as “ respected ” all over europe . trump , for his part , is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him in the white house , describing him as having respected all over europe . trump , for his part , is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house , describing him as having respected all over europe . they are n’t making america great , or even good ; they are making it hungarian .
making matters worse , orbán has destroyed hungary ’s independence from the country ’s civil service and thoroughly politicized lawlessness . whereas orbán has employed economic pressure to compel the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has been describing the press as “ “ the enemy of the people ” and has threatened libel actions against critical outlets . at the same time , trump has purged some 17,000 public officials by firing us departments , shutting down the us government , freezing up payment , and creating an atmosphere of hostility to honest , open discussion of how to formulate and execute policies . trump is doing much of the same thing , with the result that america ’s government now loses some 94 % of its regulatory court cases . at the same time , trump has purged some 17,000 public officials by firing us state department staff , shutting down the us government , freezing up pay , and creating an atmosphere of hostility toward honest , open debate about how to formulate and execute policies .
but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article that the data have been used , and there is no validation of this model . “ if you were developing a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast the munich location , ” and that program told you so squarely in the gulf of mexico , right out in florida , does n’t mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , the right off florida . folta offers the brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . to make a decision not to challenge these data , folta continues , and rather to publish the map show that munich stands squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing any additional data and claiming by millions more rather drier germans , does not mean any brilliant . folta , for its part , offers the brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work .
the sum of the headline commitment has been impressive , amounting to more than 20 % of gdp . yet , by the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state were not considering the creation of a joint bank-imf rescue fund . instead , they settled on a package of domestic arrangements to stabilize one ’s banking systems by one another . in other words , europeans are facing a fundamental collective-action problem . experience has shown that only an acute crisis can push europe into a concerted effort .
the two sides again fought each other in 1971 , even though kashmir was not a focus . following the civil war pitting the then-western pakistan against the bengali freedom fighters of the breakaway east pakistan fueled a surge in afghan refugees in the near east , india started supporting the rebel groups there . west pakistan was forced to surrender , with east pakistan becoming an independent state in bangladesh . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan dispatched troops to the indian-administered district of kargil . a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo prevailed .
whereas pandemics appears suddenly , spread fast , raising enormous anxiety about an imminent threat , tb has been spreading slowly but consistently to tens of thousands of years , patiently awaiting new opportunities . moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in tb warfare , gaining opposition to conventional antibiotics , as well as canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and setting of drug sensitivity . roughly 15 million people suffer from the co-infection of hiv and the mycobacterium tuberculosis act , the primary causative agent in most of the tb cases . with the emergence of an hiv outbreak in the 1980 ’s , which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged , making it the number-one murderer of an hiv-infected individual . treating tb requires a minimum of three drugs administered for at least six months .
europe ’s strongest military power by far , france has thwarted any attempts to pool europe ’s ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution that may mark the start of the process of political unification . in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution that may mark the start of the process of political unification . continuing progress toward fiscal union would , ironically , make a political union increasingly unlikely for a single simple but important reason : france . the drawbacks of a stronger european fiscal union do not end there further .
this will be no easy feat , not least because of yet another new operating burden placed on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ autonomy , and policy conflicts – all of which might influence financial intermediaries ’ behavior , by encouraging them to assume more risk . the inflation-targeting limits are now clear . they recognize that their supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal , for example , that it can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for some time ) and powerful interests in protecting its reputation . central banks now need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility – regardless of whether it is legally mandated – to minimize financial vulnerability .
that should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms should be able to deliver a better-off product at below-price prices , while linting workers with higher wages . by standard economic reasoning , this is an inefficient way of doing so . by comparison , in the developed world , an unusually large volume of small firms , unproductive firms , coexist with low numbers , productive firms . by comparison , in the developed world , an unusually large volume of small firms , unproductive firms coexist with low rates , productive firms . so , why is n’t this routinely happening in the developing world ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has shifted to chinese president jiang zemin ’s successor . yet this is misguided , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent boom and transformation history was the appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as the state council ’s premier , a position once held by deng xiaoping . mr. zhu had been china ’s jack welch , tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric , a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence on performance . given the obvious significance of the post over the last few years , the choice of mr. zhu ’s replacement may be all the more important than president jiang ’s departure from the center stage . even before becoming premier , mr zhu , as president of the communist party of china , was known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth and the mastermind of its successful struggle against inflation .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for just about 10-12 % of the continent ’s manufactured exports and imports . but , in part because a few african countries escaped the hang-over the global credit crisis , more investors are concentrated in business opportunities there . twenty-three bourses currently are operating in africa , with their combined market capitalization having ballooned from $ 245 trillion in 2002 to more than $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world ’s total ) at the end of 2009 – as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest global stock exchange . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the top 11 african economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china and india ) . to some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as its economic powerhouses stems in part from its successful accumulation of shares .
establishing national , regional , and global standards is no easy task . but the failure to devise mechanisms that allow migrants to exploit their skills causes causes even more harm . in fact , trained clinicians should not be run by the taxicabs act . some countries suffer when skilled workers are emigrating ; they can not be allowed to support them . in fact , some countries suffer when skilled workers are emigrating .
what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . for its part , fillon may well be able to muster the same level of support , and may even turn out to skim votes from le pen , given that some 8 % of the primary electorate has described themselves as the national front ’s national front backers . heading into the election campaign , fillon may run on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during the second-round debates , when he hinted that he favors forming a european government . its old-school coalition , in the right and disaffected working-class voters , will not arrive at untold or defy expectations , just as happened in the american and uk . unlike trump and the united kingdom , ’s “ leave ” brexit campaign already holds a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-quarter of voters .
he pursues power , without considering the consequences of his acts . polish state media ’s ’s narrative portraying the owsiak and civic platform as guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s killing will only undermine pis . generations of poles have been involved in charities ’s fundraising drive . kaczyński has repeatedly shown his impulsiveness , too . for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope .
almost anywhere else in the world – including in the united states – is likely to be shockingly high . in florida , the tomato pickers earn an average of only about $ 0.50 for each 32-pound ( $ 14.1,000 ) per year . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost the worker there ? new york city – the last fast-food hamburger to eat – may have cost you next to nothing . appalling wages are only the beginning .
when xi first unveiled his slogan after being singled out as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in a simple , accessible but nonetheless generic perspective : the “ chinese people ’s dream of living on an equal life for all the world ’s other people . ” sadly , china propagandists who double like censors have a perverse capacity to discredit anything it attempts to brand . xi has said little about the “ china dream ” since – and his silence has created great distress . when xi first unveiled his slogan , after having been singled out by the ccp as a new general secretary , he defined it in a simple , accessible but nonetheless generic perspective : the chinese people ’s dream of living an equal good life for all others around the world . whatever the new us administration may be touted as a component of its ambitious effort to make the stage of china ’s “ dream ” is coming true .
even in the animals , whose genes are more readily studied and far better understood , such as drosophila , the miniscule fruit fly , there is no simple uniform correspondence between the gene and the behavioral trait . fruit fly genes are shockingly similar to our own species , as they are to those of most other creatures . indeed , they can not , because a genetic experimentation on humans is impossible . indeed , they can not , because of a genetic experimentation about humans is impossible . fruits fly genes are shockingly similar to ours , because they are to those of most other creatures .
environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating and corruption is running rampant , with cash out of opaque sources flooding into cambodia ’s casinos , us banks , and the real-estate market . emerging-market investment decisions increasingly predate rigorous esg screenings , which , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of going around . cambodia is currently rid of its natural resources , including timber , rubber , and sandy – for its private gain . cambodia is currently rid of its natural resources , including timber , rubber , and sandy – for its private gain . gone are the days when strong esg performance was a nice bonus for investors .
in the run-up to world war ii , european countries aligned themselves with national interests . whereas the british had been especially open about the nationalist character of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their own domestic interests . yet attempts to establish political unity through the joint army failed in 1954 by pointing out that the economic common ground was the key to european integration . simply put , talk of the “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines – and that there is no return to it . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-president gordon brown , described brown as an “ pragmatic ” view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered the practical benefits of peace and prosperity to britain .
the us finds a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europeans have found a new adversary to help it integrate into the united states . quite a few in europe defines the eu as an instrument of holding up its own vis-à-vis the united states . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who believe both the enlightenment ’s values and the constitution of liberty . they see even the euro as a weapon against the us dollar and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” and the us dollar is “ weak . ” quite a few in europe defines the eu as an instrument of holding its own against the united states .
perhaps he will replace the widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . perhaps he will replace the widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . the majority of pis , for its part , may hope that some of the governing coalition in poland ( such as those ruled by the social democrats , for example ) proposes yet another alternative for tusk , whom eu member states elect in order to prevent an escalation of the conflict with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against pis would be kaczyński deserves . the most saryusz-wolski may realistically hope for is a certain government position in poland .
i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . so the problem lies with iranians . now , the eu is once again on the iranian stew . but this time , it is hard to see the path that is offering a second referendum .
yet experiences all over the world indicate that it is a risky outlook . other countries ( like spain ) experience their own real-estate crises . and a weak economy means more likely than not , say , more bank losses . the problems are not confined to the american economy . even were banks healthy , the deleveraging process , and the associated loss of wealth , implies that , more likely than not , the us economy will be weak .
for the time being , germany ’s foreign-policy priorities appear to remain the eu and the continent ’s east and southern neighbors from which immediate security risks are most likely to be emancipated . yet , even as it has expanded its capacity to grant military force to the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made it abundantly clear that it does not view itself as a military power . at the same time , they are keen to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that account for the actions and potential contributions of non-state actors . this , in turn , would be a wise choice . german policymakers remain convinced that the political and economic pathways to influence are more potent than violence , implying additional soft-power developments , including digital diplomacy .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity in the decades to come , they will need to find ways to prevent current economic activity from rising an already unsustainable budget burden . to be sure , countries with budget deficits can often fill the gap through global trade – if they can pay for much-needed imports . over-use of resources , or even failing to manage them cautiously , will inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength . for that to happen , ecological resources must come to be viewed as valuable endowments to manage wisely . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its major assets , a reason that more than 200 million international tourists are joining annually , feeding the region ’s economies .
it favors the politics of engagement and the six-party talks so as to resolve the nuclear issue . ms. park once pledged to provide credit for working-class families , from a elementary school to a university degree , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy . but she must convincingly develop a practical strategy for resolving south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , deteriorating educational performance , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . park once pledged to provide credit for working-class families , from a elementary school age to university years , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy . her success ultimately will depend on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further determining her character along these lines .
up-front gradualism , for example , must be the name of going into play . income will consistently grow only if the tax base – which is , the economy – grows . and , indeed , that growth requires higher levels of public investment in infrastructure , as well as human capital . a fiscal compact like the one endorsed recently is helpful in anchoring expectations for future adjustment , but only when the new system is flexible enough to become politically credible . and adjustment must be wedded to the growth strategy .
more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its stance that severe fiscal consolidation generates enough increases in private-sector confidence that spending cuts by households and firms will more than offset lower spending by governments . more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its stance that severe fiscal consolidation produces enough increases in private-sector confidence that spending cuts by households and firms will more than offset lower spending by governments . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will discourage american economic growth . yet the oecd does not consolidate excessively rapidly during a sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trading partners want the us to grow and purchase more of its exports .
for most people , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; rather , it was the daily immerimmersion in lies , in spiritual depravity and material corruption . indeed , totalitarian pressure did , in fact , make up extraordinary people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom the religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . yet it did the same thing for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who had defended their supreme values with reference to , and , in a language , lay humanism . i confess that i view the legacy of communism with more skepticism . this is one reason why postcommunist societies are not demonstrating any nobility or disinterestedness that seriously clash with the west .
when the un asked nearly ten million people worldwide to list their priorities , the un emphasized better education and health care , fewer corruption , more jobs , and an affordable food system . at the same time , the world bank ’s climate focus is on the odds of what the world ’s poorest citizens want . under kim , a bank has become aware of the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are always harmful , coal must be forbidden , and bill on climate aid ” is a solution . in fact , global warming has emerged from just 16 of the world ’s poorest people . the evidence indicates that direct policies are far more efficient .
he complains that the us has already devoted more than $ 1 billion to american businesspeople and a world that $ 1 billion amounts to benefits worth of $ 3.08 per person per american . trump carries about the paris accord ’s supposed bias toward india ’s favor , but he refuses to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of the american level . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the us green climate fund ( and trump sneers at his name for some reason as well ) . the world ’s co2 emissions from the us and industry have averaged 4.5 tons per person ( $ 32.4 trillion of $ 7.2 trillion of people in the iea tabulation ) , while american emissions have been almost four times that level , $ 16.2 trillion per person ( $ 5.2 trillion for an additional 320 million ) . consider the most recent data for a year of the international energy agency ’s 2014 energy statistics .
true , un secretary general ban ki-moon may produce speeches , to convene meetings , to propose actions , but his role is more secretary general than general . as one wag put it , “ we meet the un ! ” and , when they can not agree on an era of action , it is hard for the organization to operate . what hard power the un has to plead and borrow from its member states . sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” ” ” the un secretary general can wield soft power through persuasion but little hard economic or military power .
perhaps for that reason , there has been talk of a meeting in warsaw between russia ’s presidents and france , american secretary of state , and presidents from armenia and azerbaijan . perhaps for that reason , there has been talk of a meeting in tehran between russia ’s presidents and france , american secretary of state , and armenia ’s presidents and azerbaijan . a meeting of us presidents is , after all , the ultimate bargaining forum and must take the lead in delivering genuine , sustainable success . otherwise , no amount of negotiation can help to set the caucasus straight , powerfully undermining a key restraint that is preventing both sides from attempting once again to reach a military solution . that prospect , for example , holds both a great chance and grave risks .
true , venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro is ruling out unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and a all-powerful , one-party state , an illegally established constituent assembly , while ignoring an elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . yet the impact on his misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the health-care system itself has been cracking down , and violence , and contagious diseases are now virtually out of control . governments in americas and european americas are finding themselves in rough , uncharted waters . if the problem were simply the case with the gross violations of the organization of american states ’ democratic charter ( ffjp ) , convincingly certified the oas secretary general ’s secretary general , the solutions as measured in a matter of months or years . but venezuela is not only a political problem ; it is a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented scale .
one day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced that he would open facebook account to receive and respond to the public ’s questions . similarly , omar abdullah , a youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts with twitter , with its much older rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot , and oommen chandy respectively , have opened facebook account just as well . yet the pace at which the political world is embracing social media has been accelerating dramatically over the past year . the chief minister of west bengal mamata banerjee is running a popular and widely read web site that the traditional media outlets mine day . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale adoption of twitter – modi ’s ’s ’s network allies include netanyahu ’s own parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and the coterie of organized supporters , prominent indian politicians from all parties have gone leapt in .
so , long as a country becomes subordinated to an uncontrolled forces of globalization , its future runs into foreign hands . but , in agreeing to open up regional economies to imports , the poor and the developing world must be permitted by some means to protect their new industries . it is precisely this kind of equal collaboration that can secure a solid political foundation for integration . related to this view , the fact that nowadays economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the adverse impact on those financial speculations that are boosted by globalization . thus , the world needs , in its regions , to facilitate integration through the foundation of inclusive economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , a shared rule of law , and much of all forms of common will to correct the rules of the game , according to the region ’s entire interests .
is it fair to expect that egyptians will continue to pay for their past repression and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his cronies ? because this money clearly benefited mubarak , but not his own people , should it be not mubarak or his victims who are held accountable ? the type of mubarak regime has been going on for many years . when egyptians rose against mubarak in january , they were confronted with arms to pay for their borrowed money . a fiscally prudent lender was supposed to regard these facts before making loans .
perhaps those are ideas en vogue in korea as it thinks about potential unification ; but even there will be a hard time getting out when the time arrives . one alternative strategy , remotely inconceivable , is that west germany would foresee the failure of that experiment before embarking on it . even that dream since , faced with high unemployment , east german wages have increased substantially each year , relative to western germany . at the more depreciated conversion rate that the us would simply have an even faster wage inflation rate . perhaps those are ideas en vogue in korea as it thinks about potential unification ; but even there will be a hard time getting out when the time arrives .
public investment is high enough ; broadening it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not secure . china ’s leaders should aim to speed up and build on these trends , rather than pursue additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing to smaller firms . new service firms – which started just last year – are generating incremental employment , owing in part to the new streamlined licensing framework .
the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the eu , and police its single market . it would have been unimaginable for nato heads of state to move ahead with its planned leadership summit in warsaw in june , if poland remains mired in its constitutional crisis , with its government disregarding the rule of law and the position of an acclaimed international body . but it also needs the eu itself to develop a more comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law within the union . the hungarians and poles need to be reminded that russian president vladimir putin actively seeks to divide and weaken both the eu and nato . if europe is to confront the kremlin ’s aggression , it is imperative that poland and hungary adhere to these groups ’ fundamental values and principles .
but the fact is that most researchers are not driven entirely by such interests . many fear , with good reason , that fossil-fuel interests are exploiting solar geoengineering in order to defy emissions cuts . still , it has been very likely that large fossil-fuel companies , from supranational energy firms to coal-dependent regions , will ultimately use the discussion of geoengineering to combat emissions limits . at the same time , the overwhelming majority of those revising solar geoengineering , or advocating a commitment to incorporating them into climate-policy debates , also encourage much stronger action to reduce emissions . but that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering .
it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its abrupt disappearance of 15 years earlier , has left its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of unilateralism . instead , america has succumbed to the temptation of us unilateralism . national greatness for a world power always emerges from its capacity to shape the world . to accomplish that , america would have to subordinate its power to the goal of shaping the new order , much like it did during the closer to world war ii of world war ii . if great powers forgets that or lose their capacity to act in due course , they are beginning to decline .
that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to encourage domestic development agendas and diversification . working with other stakeholders , sustainable-, and just transitions can also accomplish something more : allowing carbon power to have a positive effect on economies that have so far experienced only the adverse impact of twentieth-century oil-backed development . for such strategies , however , the oil industry needs to get on board . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum corporation , which will take part in barkindo , along with numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders , represents an ideal opportunity to launch such a process . the industrialized economies , for their part , must do more to subsidize african oil industries , and to ensure that the adverse impact on oil production is mitigated .
economic development in the gaza strip was reduced under egyptian rule , with the region suffering the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the south of a compulsory palestine that would later become israel . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees living under difficult conditions in the scores of refugee camps , and they were heavily reliant on work in israel . the 1967 war placed all of the compulsory palestine ( like sinai and the golan ) under israeli military occupation . palestinians ’ access to egypt was confined , with much of gaza ’s predominantly unskilled labor force dependent on the un relief works administration , which built up and sustained local refugee camps . yet , though one-third of the west bank was shut out of the palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only about 10 % of its predominantly rural population are refugees , many of them home to a large number of jobs .
after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him graciously , because i proposed writing that history . when the financial crisis erupted , the thinking was perhaps crossed by the likes of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who had been us treasury secretary , vice chair of the federal reserve bank and president of the new york fed respectively . now , a decade later , the three of them co-authored for what could best be described as the version of the episode ’s 2.1 history . a second proposition in history is often written by the key people themselves . all three published lengthy memoirs make it clear why they did and do n’t , inevitably , do – with a level of self-justifying analysis at every case .
the goal was not to fix the problems that they faced directly , but rather to induce new , more efficient activities to help turn debt into assets and to maximize the economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s application of capacity . for example , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms of the 1980s were spurred in part in part by growth in non-agricultural sectors , the result of policies aimed at stimulating township and village enterprises . likewise , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects , the result of state-owned enterprises ’ chronic loss-making and excessive private investment , respectively , by implementing growth-enhancing institutional reforms in more dynamic industries , thereby offsetting soes ’ declining returns on capital . likewise , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the direct result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) – of chronic loss-making and excessive private investment , respectively , by implementing growth-enhancing institutional reforms in more dynamic industries , thereby offsetting soes ’ rapid return to capital . in that sense , east asian economies embraced the process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby the economy ’s structure was continually revolutionized from within .
brussels – as the protests over china ’s ’s ’s crackdown in tibet and discussions about kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustices of taiwan ’s ’s ongoing international isolation have barely stirred a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on the united nations membership . likewise , much of the rest of the world continues to protest in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal repression of tibetan culture . this seeming dual norm can be explained in part by the feeling of guilt : the west has , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic from waging ethnic cleansing there . by contrast , taiwan does not capture its attention because it is a stable , thriving economy . this neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove dangerous .
may ’s two leading spads , fiona hillary clinton , and nick timothy geithner , have taken this danger to daunting levels . during my 17-month experience as eu secretary , i have become convinced that spads ’ excessive power – and a haughty approach – are undermining the uk ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s excellent civil service , just as elected and appointing eu ministers has become the dominant figures . whatever may , it is now becoming clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad , genuine support . a second change to the better-off brexit would , i hope , be less controversial : a reduction in the power bestowed in the uk on neither elected special aides , or on spads who have become dominant figures in all government departments . many are now eagerly offering their views as being asked about whether the eu should look yet again at the “ norway model ” of its relationship with the eu , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market .
setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , tentative results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks yielding less than or comparable to those associated with many contemporary industrial activities . indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials today are known for the obvious risks to human health . while attempting to curtail the development of nanomaterial-inspired technologies would be just as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , accountable developments in such technologies require vigilance and social commitment . it would be naïve to imagine that nanotechnology develops free of risks in our health and environment . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they shift from laboratory to industrial production .
as a result , the unregulated online world is fertile ground for reaping enormous gains from child sexual trafficking . globally , human trafficking generates an average annual earnings of more than $ 150 billion , more than two-thirds ( $ 99 trillion ) from forced sexual exploitation . today , nearly 4.5 billion people have internet access , and about one in three internet users is under the age of 18 . would-be traffickers need only a laptop , or a smartphone with a high-speed internet link to go into business . with rapid growth in digital platforms threatening to turn into a child ’s sex trade into an ever more lucrative business , the world needs to take urgent action , coordinated action to fight this appalling crime .
and it should not come as a surprise that markets tested europe ’s political leaders ’ willingness to stay silent where monetary matters are concerned . the euro , for its part , has experienced a hard but promising start . it should come as no surprise that the euro started to slide against the us dollar , contemplating the divergence in economic performance between america and europe . the recent interventions and aid provided by america and japan have shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets are confident of success . the recent interventions and aid from both america and japan have shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets are confident about its success .
indeed , the internet ’s boom/bust cycle brings into question the prevailing economic theories of financial markets . now that internet fdi has been abated , we hear that the costs of fundamentals reasserted themselves . people have learned that it pays to buy up dips , and are not weaned off from the habit until it stops paying off . but this view comes at a time of half-truth as the earlier notion that a boom would last forever , because the internet economy has created new fundamentals . what should now be obvious now is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given .
the principle even applies to foods : large amounts of nutmeg , or licorice , are notoriously toxic . the risk that a substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its inherent capacity to inflict harm and one ’s exposure to it . palo alto – since the development of the sixteenth-century science of toxicology , its guiding principle – has been that “ the dosage makes the poison . ” it is the rule that applies to the drugs used for patients worldwide by a factor of many billions of times per day . the right dose of aspirin can be a therapeutic godsend ; but consuming too much can be lethal .
but libya is not the only country attempting to shift from a dictatorship to a democracy with weak institutions and robust tribal identities . the fourth scenario is partition , with its ancient , ottoman-style setup commonly referred to : cyrenaica ( eastern ) , the fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( the west ) . cyrenaica is the qaddafi-free ; tripolitania is not ; and the fezzan did not fully join the revolution . given libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as the likely outcome of the post-qaddafi era . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully walked out of ever more complicated tests , offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions .
they argue that the ecb ’s quantitative easing ( qe ) , with no fiscal relaxation , would prove ineffective . giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail an excessively large stimulus . the bank of england has presented qe as a pure monetary-policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of needed and desirable fiscal consolidation . but they also point out a crucial question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp over the next 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , funded by the very longer-term public debt that the ecb should purchase .
confrontation and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics , even as america ’s government has the capacity to service its debts is on the line , owing to the tea party ’s ideological rigidities . but s & p ’s assessment of the underlying political situation is on the horizon : by creating dysfunctional paralysis in the heart of the government , the tea party congress has shown that it is willing to impose the dramatic costs of the broader economy , and to ensure substantially slower growth . never mind that eye-popping growth projections in us representative paul ryan ’s administration are entirely implausible ; these are the matter politically , because , without them , the full sting of congress under ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would have been readily apparent . the standard & poor ’s has received some justified critiques of analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade american government debt ; after all , there has been very little economic news to account for the shift ’s timing . and the tone in political debate , not surprisingly , has become a lot nastier .
both seemed to recognize that a stable us-china relationship was necessary to enable them to concentrate on their respective challenges . on trade , trump and xi had agreed on a 100-day plan for talks on reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . moreover , america embraced china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement through the creation of us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four wide-ranging sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , law enforcement , and cybersecurity , as well as social and cultural and cultural issues . both appeared to recognize the need for a stable us-china relationship to enable them to focus on their respective challenges . for its part , trump endorsed xi as an invitation to visit china soon .
against this backdrop , efforts to tame deep-seated sunni-shia rivalries ( by , say , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , while no doubt important , should not be taken more seriously by strategies to confront sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military services for the adult republic of males . and kuwait is contemplating following in jordan in july , by reintroducing conscription that are already underway in most sunni states ( as well as iran ) . that strategy must center on federalism . had federalism been introduced in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift emerged , it probably would not have ended as a failed state .
the left ’s yearning for peace is viewed as naive , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for the fears and complexes of a wide range of aggrieved voters , including russian migrants , orthodox jews , a majority of traditionalist israelis and religious settlers . the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds a widespread yearning for jewish roots , the deep-seated fear among arabs , and the uncompromising mistrust of a “ world , ” ” ” the so-called “ international community with which jews hold a centuries-old dispute . ” israeli elections are in some ways an tribal affair ; people are voting on the basis of memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . the far left has failed to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly a matter of political affairs ; they are expressions of the ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society .
but there is little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s jobs and income prospects will require upgrading of their skills to seize the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , the gains from individual women , their communities , and societies , and the global economy . moreover , among the new jobs created by ai will be many fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally prospered . so far , it is not clear precisely how automation will affect women ’s job . according to mgi ’s own research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years , as health-care and education needs to grow .
after loyalty , however , was secure , the government enacted a more pragmatic policy . indeed , russia ’s links with the muslim world go back thousands of years , and was rooted in a tradition of tolerance . until mid 19th century ii , sedentary muslim elites were co-opted into an imperial aristocracy , just as they did during the twentieth century during which national communist elites had been absorbed by the soviet nomenclatura . after loyalty was assured , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural region , caucasus , and central asia , and brutally quelled opposition .
the trigger was the proposed extradition legislation , which many feared would extend the mainland ’s reach in hong kong ’s one-party judicial system . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in that case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . the absence of any blueprint for bringing together diverse protest groups , together with hong kong ’s government , became a source of growing concern . hong kong has been experiencing an unprecedented 17 weeks of largely peaceful demonstrations ( occasional bouts of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) . such a plan would have to do at least two things .
in order to address this bias head on and provide a clarity regarding the allocation of funds , the egf should target its limited funds on two simple , active labor-market programs : wage insurance and mobility allowance . the downside of such a focus approach is equally obvious : the margin of choice for eu members regarding how egf funds are to be spent in their home countries would be minimal . a competitive allowance allowance could offer workers , whose pay has been cut after displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to about half the gap between older and new wages . the very simplicity of such a scheme is likely to ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . wage insurance could offer workers , whose pay has been slashed after displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to about half the gap between older and new wages .
but kharas ’s projections indicate that asia will account for about two-thirds of the global middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not only the west , but even other emerging regions . to be sure , the rise of asia in the middle class is not the only type of change we should expect . asia ’s gdp has been 28 % ( after including japan ) , and it has been growing in the last five years . that is the true business opportunity , and it will be the first time in history .
a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with the financial and political turmoil in greece , would be perceived as a major defeat to european integration – especially following the laborious drive to hold together a monetary union and , with it , a european dream . such an outcome would become all the more disheartening in view of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris and , after marches in france and throughout the continent , rekindled a lingering waning sense of european solidarity . on both the far right and the far left , populist parties are gaining their electoral traction . some , like france at the national front , oppose their country ’s membership in the eurozone ; others , like spain ’s podemos party , do not . yet the challenge that these new parties pose in europe could prove uniquely disruptive .
european governments are replicating the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” european governments seem to have no comprehensive strategy for translating this into a coherent policy . taken together , all of these deficiencies casts serious doubt on the eu asserting leadership of the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . but , while deliberation takes hold out how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , there is little vision beyond that . indeed , when europeans think of reforming global governance , they restrict themselves to the numbers of seats , and the voting heavyweights in international bodies . european governments are now grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s global clout by nudging other powers into separate arrangements .
if the court approves the deal , a settlement would place billions of reals in pockets of savers . são paulo – a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies in the 1980s and 1990s – is approaching conclusion . during the late 1980 ’s and early 1990s , brazilian rule struggled to stabilize the country ’s economies and its currency . but , more than the long-awaited payday of some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution action would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly interminable war on hyperinflation . in december , the lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s predecessor , former federal court , with its request to ratify the settlements reached with the banks .
such barriers have had a dramatic effect on social and economic progress . but this has not translated into greater scrutiny of the finances of finance . one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization is working , women are borrowing 13 % less money on farm-related activities than men do . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and agency restrictions , and mobility all conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm finance . women today dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industries .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , both iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . modi ’s administration is tout by supporters tout a slew of new repressive legislation , including the criminalization of talaq-e-e-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” as displaying resoluteness .
one solution is to channel a portion of liquidity injections into countering that factor-cost asymmetry . liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little attention : lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , causing relative declines in labor demand . even if job subsidies were offered only for , say , a single year , firms would be tempted to take advantage of more labor during this time . thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could use $ 60 to purchase assets and the remainder in order to furnish a marginal job-creating subsidy for firms , potentially especially in more flexible labor economies that enable short-term hiring . this very likely exacerbates the problem of unemployment ; it certainly is not mitigating it .
and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur extra protocol on accountability and redress the cartagena kyoto protocol – yet another anti-genetic-engineering cries that accomplishes little except the frighten potential entrepreneurs off from agricultural biotechnology . it is overwrought , perplexing , and complicated – in short , inimical – to innovations that might have benefited the world as a whole . what is clear is that the experiences of the countries that implemented the treaty did not have been particularly positive if those countries had high tolerance of the bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations . it also mirrors the flagrantly scientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety to the cbd . the seed treaty cuts the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) .
when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did during the interwar years – the anti-international right moved toward communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . “ there is , ” he wrote in an echo era of today ’s globalization debates , “ a degree of situation in capitalistically disorganized economies in which a higher culture does not emerge rather than lose in an existential struggle with inferior cultures . ” in the center – beleaguered by the counter-global reactions of the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite viewed the goods of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial . for much of the post-1945 era , those divisions vanished as right , leaving struggle for redistribution within national economies . at the center – beleaguered by the counter-global reactions of the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite saw the goods of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial .
but the veil that does exist over how an omnipotent party makes important decisions goes back somewhat , owing to the sheer volume of unique material about the behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous 1989 tiananmen massacre . taken as a whole , those documents provide a rare glimpse into china ’s leaders ’ modus operandi . the materials included in this book that i brought out of china and decide to make the public , consisting of hundreds of papers , including minutes and transcripts of meetings that have most asean leaders deliberated about how to manage tiananmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; classified reporting from security agencies ; and dispatching from the police and the military . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is the proverbial opportunity . as witness and participant in tiananmen events and , as someone with access to its historic archive , i felt it was my obligation to publish this record of decision lying behind what happened .
and yet the records were smuggled in slovakia and the other eastern european countries , where they were treasured young rock supporters , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the country ’s president . in the 1970s , for example , slovakia , like other communist states , was denmark , repressive ones , joyless place where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and the creativity was stifled under the blanket of an enforced conformism . recordings by rolling stones , and other western groups , were forbidden , to say the least . in france , for example , slovakia , like the other communist states , was denmark , sweden , sweden , sweden , switzerland , and hungary , switzerland , sweden , switzerland , switzerland , and france , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , norway , switzerland , switzerland , norway , switzerland , switzerland , norway , switzerland , and sweden , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , sweden , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , norway , switzerland , switzerland , sweden , and sweden , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , sweden , switzerland , and sweden , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , and sweden have been seen as a noxious form of switzerland of capitalist switzerland .
there is , of course , an appealing logic to argue that governments should be forced to balance their budgets just like those of the rest of us ; sadly , that is not nearly as straightforward . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece are facing massive social and economic displacement as financial markets lose trust and capital flows suddenly dries up . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly understate the massive adjustment costs of a self-imposed , abrupt halt in the form of debt financing . governments typically have myriad ongoing spending liabilities linked to basic services like national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention pensioners . no government can simply walk away from these responsibilities overnight .
president hosni mubarak of egypt claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan has coined the axiom of a rising “ shiite crescent . ” while that perception may be persuaded at first blush , it is ultimately rooted in generalizations that expose more to its proponents than real realities on earth . ironically , this perception brings israel with some rather unlikely partners in the region . take iraq , where a looming shia crescent ” is often blamed on much of the mayhem . this “ shiite shia divide ” and the resulting “ sunni /shia divide ” supposedly produces an ever widening chasm in the region .
making matters worse , the consultancy wood mackenzie finds that the boom in renewables translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . it does not help that china ’s financial institutions funneled at least $ 1 trillion in “ green ” finance to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still supply up to 85 % of global primary power by 2040 , down only slightly from about 90 % today . likewise , companies can not keep producing oil , gas , and internal-combustion engines while shifting gradually toward cleaner technology ; they need a clean break . to complete the shift away from fossil fuels will require drilling into the heart of the global economy .
moreover , with american support , colombia has become more powerful , owing to its modernization of its military facilities and doctrine , the increasing number of soldiers and improved training . as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly expensive to insurgents . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict , with no endless debate on theoretical or doctrinaire issues . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on its government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing insurgents to uphold their demands realistic . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle at the meeting in norway and cuba .
the us administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines ; but those are small relative to the size of the us economy . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains untouched , because it does business relationships with china , as well as its other major american partners . yet it is also another area where obama set the bar high during his two terms . most positive of all , one can say about trump ’s first year in economics policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade . yes , this is the series of volatile data , for it rises and falls with the usual course of events .
malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has said that “ jews dominate the world through a proxy . ” yet southeast asians are not immune from this type of nonsense . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has said that “ jews dominate the world through proxy . ” all of these books are variants of the protocols of the elders of zion , the russian-born forgery first published in 1903 , which the japanese arrived across after defeating the czars ’ liberation army in 1905 . perhaps that is precisely how the jewish conspiracy theories were rushed through just like .
they will need not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . those running a robust emergency funding mechanism will need to be fiercely held accountable . they will need to respond to anything that smacks of european political integration . it needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . german chancellor angela merkel ’s own constituents hate bailouts because they know that they are who will bailing out the eu .
new york – striving to revive the global economy , while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis , has raised a knotty question : are statistics giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have assumed increasing importance : what we measure affects what we do . we may also be confronted with the false choices , see the trade-offs between output and the environment that do not exist . by contrast , a better measure of economic performance may indicate that the steps taken to improve the environment are good for the us economy . when we have poor measures , what we strive to do ( say , rising gdp ) may actually help to worsen living standards .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a supposedly naïve question : what is money ? we learn in introductory economics that money comes from the medium of exchange . banknotes are just pieces of paper , with a number attached to them . but why are we going to accept that ? how should i be confident that it costs what it says ? bangkok – a friend of mine – that money is the medium of exchange .
to be sure , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeal . but , at times , even sacred cows are needed to kill them . membership has since ballooned to encompass 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries , with four of those left behind ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , switzerland , and romania ) due to join in their future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . when it was created first in 1985 , schengen areas included only five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and western germany ) . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into an existential threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity , and of its national governments ’ capacity to uphold order and the rule of law , that time is now .
no doubt , putin now seems to be behaving like a peacemaker . he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . at the same time , he realizes that large business is crucially important to russia ’s modernization . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick to their sphere of activity , leaving politics to him . but the problem wo n’t go away , either .
the danger now is that political insecurity in germany , france , italy , and the united kingdom creates an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to erect more walls ( physically like metaphorically ) , and to mobilize nationalism ’s ghosts . though the world ’s attention currently seems to be fixating on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an just destructive transatlantic confrontation can not be ignored . trump seems genuinely convinced that german cars in the streets of new york present an existential threat to us national security . should he wake up one morning to decide to impose tough import tariffs on european cars , things could get very nasty , very fast . moreover , europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s external environment has become more dangerous .
it may also erode the charter ’s value for institutions . there is a trade-off between the competition and the stability of the entire economy . a think-length bank and limited liability has little to lose , and it will tend to gamble – a trend that is aggravated by deposit insurance and nonperforming policies . indeed , more competitive pressure can enhance the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , making investors more prone to panics . at the same time , it can erode the charter ’s worth of institutions .
this is one reason why a high-income country born in high-income countries is 18 times less likely than a baby born in a low-income country to die before reaching the age of five . yet , ironically , a child continues to die every 20 seconds from preventable diseases like pneumonia , which are preventable by a vaccine . most are living in impoverished , distant communities , which still lack access to basic vaccines that are university-available in better-off countries . vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , and have reduced infant deaths and illnesses linked to measles , diphtheria , and tetanus . fortunately , the world as a whole is taking action .
as the pioneering baby psychologist jean piaget has shown , children in the early stages of development go through an era of great egocentrism : they naturally focus on one ’s own needs and do n’t think of the rules . and , because a child believes that everyone operates under his or her own particular definitions of the right and wrong , she can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently . to a child ’s mind , he is out of the wrong place ; the world simply is misinformed . to the child ’s mind , he is out of the wrong place ; the world simply is misinformed . and , rather than admit to violated rules , they are lying for reconciling inconsistency .
its greatest shortcoming is its lack of highways , bridges , harbors , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is only stunning . it is this difference more than anything else that sets the two economies apart . what can india do to close the gap with the rest of the world ? if your goods can not get into the global economy , you can not conquer it . over the last five years , china has multiplied its highways system five-fold .
in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians turn out to be willing prey on those who feel ignored . but , because those politicians are so appealing to so many , no less than easily swayed by voters must be scrutinized . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” critical thinking increasingly seems to be dismissed as elitist endeavor , whereas unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” there are two kinds of populists nowadays : exploitative and enlightened goons . there are two kinds of populists today : exploitative and enlightened ones .
across industries , a slowing demand recovery following the financial crisis has been key to holding back investment . a recent feature that stands out in this era of historically sluggish productivity growth is weak demand . mgi ’s survey , for example , last year , found that 47 % of firms expand their investment budgets , owing to increased demand or higher demand expectations . the crisis heightened uncertainty about the future direction in consumer and investment demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical to investment .
this view , propagated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to comprehend how markets operate . the french have no interest that they have never been able to articulate their vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets toward defending “ “ “ higher ” ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . yet the facts have been hit hard , too . here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from normal rules of market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets , and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . they look to economics as an ideological battleground , where all views can be entertained without confronting the logic , much less with facts .
whereas social security and medicare remain important to secure retirement wellbeing , their role must be updated to suit today ’s ’s ’s needs . avoiding that outcome will require that us political leaders constrain growth in entitlement spending , and that bolster the support of middle-income individuals . moreover , health care and social security already consume about half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth in 1965 , and those outlays relative to gdp are projected to exceed double by 2040 . with no change in course , programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will eventually be depleted by the year 2030s . to be sure , to be sure , no one who has been working for 30 or more years to live in old-age poverty , social security needs larger minimum-wage benefits , with more affluent seniors seeing fewer benefits growth over time .
new york – president george w. bush was right to call pakistan a recent national and provincial election victory “ a victory ” for [ its ] people . but , even as he put these words , his administration worked behind the scenes to subvert the will of pakistan ’s people by attempting to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and prop up the election ’s greatest loser , us president pervez musharraf . in the opinion polls , millions of pakistanis have delivered a clear message . bush plays a dangerous game , risking the collapse of pakistan as a result of its own legacy . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists and , in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance .
it mutates quickly within an individual and between geographic locations , establishing latent reservoirs within the cells that enable it to emerge and replicate months later . moreover , the long-term cure is not the same thing as a cure , and no public-health tool ( besides clean drinking water ) has ever matched the preventive power of a vaccine . as a result , hiv is an exceedingly complex virus , and it is essential to avoid the emergence of a single disease . it evades the immune system , which is why the body ’s natural capacity to fight or clear is limited . in addition , the long-term cure is not the same thing as a cure , and no public-health tool ( besides clean drinking water ) has ever been matched by a vaccine ’s preventive power .
according to this argument , academic researchers should either publicize their own research openly or abandon the university before pursuing business interests . but it is helpful to remember that the university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial , yet what in earlier times looked like a conflict of interest often later came to be viewed as a kind of confluence of purpose . for example , during the late 1800s , as american universities started doing business with research at the heart of an academic mission , they were charged with forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . likewise , the universities that employ them should abandon product developments to existing firms . a number of professors argued that research demands would render them impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis years , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned on the tension between what it can and should be allowed to do . yet the ecb has channeled huge amounts of liquidity into the financial system , indirectly softening the strain on governments ’ debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has been buying back government-bond purchases – worth more than € 200 trillion ( $ 254 billion ) – on secondary markets under its securities markets program program . furthermore , it has lent its loans to the banking sector , recently launched the three-year refinancing operation , which generated $ 489 trillion in demand from eurozone banks . the ecb is the only institution in the european union to offer unlimited financing to governments , but its governing statute forbids government bailouts .
after all , when banks are unaware of their own balance sheets , they are n’t really up to the confidence of the rest of us . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and riskier derivatives , induced credit markets to freeze . america ’s ’s ’s economy was supercharged with over-leveraging ; now , it is the painful deleveraging process . the bush administration failed to see the problems coming , denied that they are the problems when it comes , then minimized their significance , and , finally , panicked . america would be faced with these problems , even if it did n’t simultaneously faced a financial crisis .
recognizing these gains , myanmar has placed an education at the heart of its reform agenda . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee da-ho noted during our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time ; but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for the country ’s knowledge-based economy . for example , the government currently is working to spur instruction in more local languages , with more than 100 speaking out in myanmar – – in rural areas . vietnam and south korea both offer inspiring examples of countries transforming their education systems within a generation . aware of these gains , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda .
in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal . what if market-fundamentalist politics explicitly forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that might compensate those who suffer from free trade and labor-market flexibility ? but what if economists ’ compensation assumed in theory does not happen in practice ? instead , policies that exacerbate competition , whether in business , labor markets , or domestic production may prove to be socially destructive and politically explosive . that highlights yet another reason for the economic-policy failures of 2007 .
but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china now flows not only into other emerging and transition economies , but also into the “ old ” fdi-exporting states of the us . these changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime and should expand interest in developing a more efficient , investment-protection framework . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment flowed from just a few sources : the traditionally affluent states of europe , north america , and japan . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework for safeguarding foreign investment . madrid – economic globalization , combined with the rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south – has made developing countries and many societies in the key global economic players .
computers and the internet have made it possible to send information almost costlessly , and to do business across cultures and continents . the resulting changes will not be all but welcome in the economic field . the worry now is that information technology is on the bend of the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will suddenly take off at far more speed than it did before . in fact , hockey stick curves often take place in nature , too . computers and the internet have made it possible to send information almost costlessly , and to do business across cultures and continents .
copenhagen – amid rising waves of concern about climate change , many countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members – have passed laws in the 2000 ’s ’s outlawing , or severely restricting access to incandescent light light light bulbs . but it is ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is just the smartest way to tackle global warming . the intent was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light light bulbs ( cfls ’ ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or about 1 % of our global co2 emissions . many contend that the agenda is being propelled by the knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . the republicans ’ current attempt at the american congress to roll back america ’s efforts to ban incandescent light light light light light light light light light light light light bulbs has revived that debate .
the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that trade gains from latin american countries ’ 33 small regional trade deals were meager . this indicates that , for the uk , the mega-regional free-trade agreement , which provides access to multiple markets , but implies lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu does , is the best route forward . the key to boosting these gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and within markets . after all , it is this approach , which would allow uk firms to position themselves in a well-developed , integrated supply chains to serve much larger markets than those that a bilateral deal confers on them . this approach limits the gains from trade in the us .
by contrast , income inequality , which is far from too extreme , and that is not arising from corruption or a privileged approach to markets , is both understood and embraced . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as critical to equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . against this backdrop , one can evaluate current patterns of growth in the global economy , as well as diverse segments of it . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly lower than the levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing in part to the fiscal constraints of over-leveraged countries . the growth pattern , which systematically excludes subgroups founder on lost political and social cohesion , and is ultimately on the losing side of the strategy .
if the rule of law is to be upheld , democratic self-defense may not appear ad hoc or arbitrary . one criterion that appears to be universally accepted is a party ’s use , encouragement , or , at least , condoning violence – as was supposedly the case with the golden dawn of the role of the attacks on migrants in athens . there is less consensus on parties that incite hatred and remain committed to destroying core democratic principles – especially given that many of europe ’s extremist parties are going out of their way to underscore that they are not opposed to democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ “ “ “ “ “ “ people ” for the people . ” thus , the “ bans ” criteria should be spelled out beforehand . for starters , it is important to recognize that a line needs a clear appearance before , say , extremist parties even emerges .
the other component of this argument , then , is that ordinary people ’s interests have been subordinated to those of the elite , who need to be heard and responsive to it . clearly , elected officials need to find answers to high levels of unemployment and falling living standards . for them , patriotism implies being harder-line to protect the national interest and embrace more democratic policies that help the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats . a democracy in which the majority feels neglected or under-capitalized is no sustainable at all . either government or the entire system is likely to be overturned .
more important , wealth and consumption in china are intimately related to real-estate values , rather than equity values . whereas official us data reveal overall import prices at an annual rate of 11 % in the 12 months ending in august , this is almost entirely the result of lower energy costs . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the us dollar was just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 ( $ 6.2 ) to cn ¥ ¥ 6.35 ( $ 6.2 ) – well below the double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the us , the euro , and the british pound . so , on an aggregate trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to those of the currencies with which it competes . whereas official us data reveal overall import prices at a rate of less than 11 % in the 12 months ending in august , that is almost entirely the result of lower energy costs .
so , while one can expect a multi-year process of rebalancing and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , precisely how long it will take depends on policy choices and the pace of structural adjustment . there is nothing automatic about this , either . in southern europe , for example , the process will take a longer time , because there are more missing components to the recovery in those countries . many developing countries are spending many times in a stable , no-growth equilibrium , and then a shift toward a more positive one . in all of the cases with which i are familiar , effective leadership has been a catalyst .
as with spain under franco , belarus ’s ’s economy is set to change before lukashenka does , laying the foundation for quick development as soon as he is gone . but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the us trade deficit projected to exceed $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . finally , the eu should be working to left-wing belarus . like spain in its dictator last years , a political opening is unlikely . belarus can not borrow enough to cover that .
at the same time , asia-pacific n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have been growing strongly since 2005 , whereas mexico ’s per capita performance has been rather disappointing , with egypt even more so . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s wealth levels have not come anywhere near that of south korea , and are still substantially wealthier than the rest of the n-11 , some remaining among the world ’s poorest countries . south koreans , for example , now enjoy the standard of living similar to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea as an “ emerging-market ” economy ” – ” ” ” ” all the more baffling . these countries have extraordinarily diverse economic and social conditions and very different levels of wealth . at the same time , asia-pacific n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have been growing strongly since 2005 , whereas mexico ’s performance has been rather disappointing , and egypt is even more so .
on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians periodically mock the image of an alliance based on shared values , while both china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . turkey ’s recent incursion in northern syria , owing to its betrayal of the kurds , who have been leading the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) , has also undercut eu interests . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians have been quick to mock the notion of an alliance based on shared values , with china and russia continuing to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . for the first time since world war ii , europeans find themselves with no notable us ally or partner . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to the demagogic attacks of the liberal-democratic legislation , and trump ’s open support for authoritarians .
leading economists such as klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s sovereign-debt bailout fund , calculated ten years ago that the eu ’s shrinking labor force is set to impose severe limits on its economic growth . whether or not public sentiment is changing in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed with greater negative consequences . leading economists such as klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s sovereign-debt bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu is set to impose severe limits on its economic growth . it predicts that labor shortages are imposing a cap that restricts annual gdp growth to just 1.8 % in the years ending up to 2030 and a mere 1.3 % from then to 2050 . eliminating some 70 million jobs and thus eu taxpayers would thus obviously be catastrophic .
and yet no international treaty cover climate-induced migration – the gap that must be addressed now . not since 1951 has the international covenant on refugee protection received so much attention . those numbers will be dwarfed by the fact that even the most modest climate-related predictions are being shown . according to the international organization on migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . according to a recent tally , some 258 million of the world ’s migrants were globally registered as refugees by the un refugee agency .
here , after my show trial , along with four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in jail , either . lukyanivska , kyiv , has said that there are no atheists in any foxists at all . god , one realizes , is one of only a friend , and only available family , because – – – – – – there is nobody else where to confide one ’s worries and hopes . here , after my show trial , and four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in jail at all , either . when , despite unbearable pain , you are interrogated – including in your cell – for dozens of hours without respite , and an authoritarian regime that is ’s whole system of coercion , including its media , tries to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prague becomes the only an intimate trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can hold .
and some donors , such as france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying by the oecd ’s development assistance commission to count un-subsidized loans as official development assistance ( oda ) to enable them to meet their oda targets . but , beyond the reduction of aid , donors can also find it more difficult to borrow countries to repay the aid budgets that they owe ( this is not confined to education loans ) . this reverses the trend over the past couple of decades toward grant-based finance , particularly for basic education . a loan buy-downs can help to keep the education sector “ competitive , ” ” ” and could prove a mechanism for leverage the additional resources of education – for which cash-strapped countries can not be willing to borrow otherwise . but education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind in pursuing non-grant-based aid .
let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool for preventing conflict in the long run . ultimately , enhanced economic activity that generates development is the only way to reduce inequalities , especially with respect to rapid demographic growth : working on a fairer distribution of a growing pie than shrinking gdp . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence is playing out in the slums of its large cities . moreover , rapid but ill-distributed economic growth can be combined with programs that target those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . had more attention given the country ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , that population may not have elected violence as an instrument of change .
though we are unsure of the precise effects , many scholars believe that total annual precipitation will continue to rise , but that its seasonality and the frequency of extremes can also rise . at the same time , water supplies are extremely volatile across regions , and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times . one new factor influencing water supplies is driving up the global temperature . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on drivers of socio-economic growth and decline – adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx – we see that concern about exhausting resources is not new . this would make it harder to take advantage of current delivery infrastructure by dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without large modifications .
that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s subsequent security challenges . the oil sector appears to be relatively intact , and so , too , should its government ’s revenues contribute relatively soon . qaddafi himself was elected by a armed force based on loyalty and ethnic affiliations , rather than any notion of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone into their under-wear , and to dispatch them home ( to describe what can be the most humane outcome ) may be large . but arguably the most prominent lesson learned in iraq stemmed from an almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam hussein ’s army without paying or retirement . libya is fortunate to be fortunate in its history .
even aside from the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , the gains from privatization are often dubious , at best . in former communist countries , many ( at times the most ) large firms were misbegotten from the start . in the past years , the investment of communism was almost totally guided by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . even aside from the insecurity of new property rights , gains from privatization are often dubious , at best . the trouble lies with the assumption that the majority of state enterprises hold value .
the new international initiative , convened by the un “ electrification roadmap , ” ” ” ” ” ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of achieving the mdgs , just as it did from his “ sustainable-energy initiative for all ” ( se4all ) and officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . the us has electrified more than four million households through targeted efforts over the short term , an effort that has featured prominently in the debates held by the un secretary-general ’s ’s ’s advisory council on sustainable energy and drawing interest from other developing countries . yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , because they do the large number of people throughout the developing world . as debates there have shown , these issues receive increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental agencies , and development finance institutions . eskom ’s role is one in our leadership and aid .
high fertility rates in many countries are , in part , a result of low income levels . but causation , too , is running the other way , too . high fertility rates stymie economic-growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it all but impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . nigeria ’s ’s ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million today , with yemen potentially growing from 18 million today to more than 42 million by 2050 . the un ’s medium-term middle-income scenario projects that the world ’s ’s population will rise from seven billion today to more than ten billion today .
at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has their lowest interest rates on record and strengthening its currency . it now has the lowest sovereign spreads for any country in its credit rating class , indicating that markets think that the credit ratings agencies were asleep at the wheel . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest level of interest rates on record and stronger currencies . all of the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome have been there , too . fast-forward to the present : the us economy has been growing at a robust 4.2 % pace , led by double-digit growth in agricultural sectors , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services .
peace and security in darfur should be an indispensable benchmark for normalized relations between america and sudan . conversely , america must be ready to take the lead in international efforts to impose severe repercussions on any party that plunges the country back into war . what is needed now is the political will – and not only of america ’s – to sustain that diplomacy . likewise , the european union and sudan ’s neighbors , particularly egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda , will need a robust role as well . the obama administration should hold firm on this through upcoming negotiating rounds , and should appoint a senior us official to help coordinate american policies on darfur to ensure that the peace effort there receives an equal level of attention as a north-south effort .
new debt , however , is nothing short of some form of dope , reducing pressure to undertake painful measures that improve competitiveness and capacity growth . what is notable now is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough . what is striking about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for a policy ’s benefits and collectivize costs , it pursues a policy sooner rather quickly and above he would have been forced to bear the costs alone . it is this de facto mutualization of debt discipline that drove the creditors to accept a lower level of interest rates and is merely a lower level of interest rates that enabled renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from the effects of austerity policies . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough .
one prominent expert in indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , particularly its wayang religious tradition . according to anderson , in contrast to the great religions of the near east … religion in wayang ’s presence there does not have the prophet , no message ; no bible , no redeemer . in short , the culture of javanese is helping indonesia to manage the many heterogeneous voices that a new throws of democracy . one prominent expert in indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia in its core javanese culture , particularly its wayang religious tradition . and why , for example , has n’t the world taken note ?
the kremlin continues its support for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintaining harsh aversion to military intervention , and seeking to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base at the syrian syrian city of tartus . that stance has translated , most obviously , into the repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending the conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . the eu is critical to engagement with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting marks the place of political , economic , and energy cooperation . next door , russia , too , must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from the changing global preconditions . in this regard , the eu has the most precious tool to be its signature , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power .
cairo – last week , a visit to egypt by saudi arabia resulted in a total of 22 agreements , including the $ 22 billion petroleum deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . but lavish aid came at a price : egypt had to relinquish the two red sea islands , which it had ceded to saudi arabia in 1950 . how , then , did the country reach that point ? indeed , egypt can not even manage the domestic challenges implied by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists are exploiting with vastly success stories . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s narrative that the country remains a significant regional power , like lie .
the security challenge that nigeria faces was dominated by discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations ’ special envoy for global education opportunity , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled a safe schools initiative . in a similar vein , #bringbackourgirls ’ campaign started online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book a day story in which he challenged jonathan to roll back the pupils . protests have spilled over into nigeria , as have countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , like the u.s. , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . the protests have proliferated throughout nigeria , as have countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , like brazil , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . international media have received rapt attention , reporting on protests , and sit-ins .
an immediate cost has been poland ’s reversal of its opposition to the american-led anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading georgian soldiers , and failing to protect the georgian citizens , russia has lost its claims on its legitimacy and stoked fears in much of the rest of the world . in early august , russia set the trap of south ossetia and georgian georgia fooliwalked into it . neighbors like ukraine became more wary , so did their policies . had the russians used their “ peacekeeping ” solely to protect southern ossetians from self-determination ” ( citing a precedent for western action in kosovo ) , they would have done little harm to their soft power , with benefits potentially exceeding costs .
as the late mit historian philip curtin documented in the early stages of the urban lifespan of the twentieth century , trade today typically involves networks of co-ethnic salesmen living among aliens . though these alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in host countries , they were often weak , and faced with discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflect their ability to enforce contracts at long distance when the existing institutional framework can not do so reliably . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas chinese , and dutch east india firms have organized much of the world ’s trade via such networks . but the diaspora , with its potential economic relevance , go well beyond remittances .
for example , the impact on harley-davidson impact is to raise the cost of roughly $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . those tariffs raise costs for us firms using the metal as an individual ’s input . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the firm an additional $ 45 million or more . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the firm an additional $ 45 million or more . when government policies reduce profitability – or jeopardize a company ’s existence – it is only reasonable only to make sense that people run that business should respond as they see fit .
this is a typical example of what economists such as joseph stiglitz call cognitive capture . for over two decades , an era characterized by chronic recessions and deflation , japan has retained its status as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . but selecting professionals has reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry . indeed , the ministry used its “ informational campaign ” to shape the public debate , compelling scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more concerned about keeping the budget deficits under control than about the effects of an adverse demand shock . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth stood at ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
indeed , the great risk nowadays nowadays is that , with so many genetic descriptions of pouring organisms , we are drowning in a sea of data , but moving further away from our understanding of biological complexity . what we need now are cell maps and how cells talk to each other . our first task is to say how many different cells there are in an intricate organism . our first task now is to say how many different cells there are in an intricate organism . our first task now is to say how many different cells there are in an intricate organism .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . new york city – china ’s massive street protest movements in the arab spring of 1989 , centered on ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square – appears to have been the anti-communist revolt that failed . like the brutal crackdown in the years since the end of june 3-4 , political freedom prevailed in central europe first in poland and hungary , before starting to fall , in east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , perhaps , violently and rather than democratically , romania . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperately poor reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies , and consensus-driven politicians . in today ’s europe , they see only an opportunity – and a glass far less than half full – to reform and restructuring , and to some extent impatient with europe ’s sluggish progress . new fronts in this kind of war are opening each passing day . true , europe is moving at a painfully slow pace , but the assault on the us state and its allies in the ossified supply side and the dinosaurs of the industrial stakes holders , is widening . in today ’s europe , they see only too much chance – a glass far less than half the full – to reform and restructuring , and are impatient to europe ’s slow pace .
some african governments have been reducing regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture . they simply need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . rather , countries need to take control by drastically improving efficiency and productivity . to be sure , there has been a need for progress . there is no reason – and no excuse – to abandon millions ’ survival to unpredictable weather patterns .
even prior to this time , england was an economic wunderkind of economics . all of us feel that a seismic shift is coming under way . all of them feel that a seismic shift is coming under way . the most intriguing analogies are germany ’s rise in the nineteenth century , and japan in the 20th century . europeans may be more mercurial , believing that the chinese market will open up not only european engineering products and machine tools to equip the new world ’s workshop , but also of luxury goods and even tourism demanded by a new , affluent chinese middle class .
but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who might replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity over economic reform . everyone expects the current president , dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin following the march election . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence may simply have bought putin some extra time . but , waiting in the wings is the former finance minister alexei kudrin that might replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of the sincerity of economic reform . the once and future president argues that he has already made russia more powerful , and that since the financial insecurity grips a large portion of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many .
moreover , not only are the more recent issues emanating from the lower-quality borrower , the covenants of those instruments – which are meant to ensure that they abide by their terms , and thus minimize default risk – have also become lax . the share of the “ weakest links ” ” rated b – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) in overall activity – has risen markedly since 2013-2015 . moreover , not only are the newer issues coming from a lower-quality borrower , with covenants in these tools – even if that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . the covenant-lite issues on the rise , and now account for roughly 80 % of the outstanding size . the share of the “ weakest linkages ” rated b – or lower ( with the negative outlook ) in overall activity has risen markedly since 2013-2015 .
issues like sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world bank ’s response to a likely change of leadership in north korea , will almost certainly emerge on the council as much as it does . before long , the council will also need to weigh down the implications of the likely commencement policy of an american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance for india ’s national security . one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on the issues that , in recent years , some indian mandarins favored lame-duck – such as south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark serious violence in an area where indian peacekeepers are already serving . likewise , during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the un peacekeeping operations in neighboring nepal will be addressed . also , during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the un peacekeeping operations in neighboring nepal will be addressed .
one issue that orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks . years of opposition politics turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians nearing the middle age . that practicality is likely to be sorely tested if it is to succeed . years of opposition politics turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians nearing the middle age . moreover , an overwhelming number of these new fidesz mps formerly have been members of the rest of the parties , and have collapsed right-wing parties , not so long ago .
as marine le pen ’s far-right french presidential candidate puts it , the globalization and liberal institutions that underpin it have become a sauvage . yet it is liberalism ’s opponents , who espouse it most effectively . nationalism and traditionalism , meanwhile , have become sources of positive emotions , even if those emotions – – – – – – and the völkisch sense of belonging are steadily shifting sands . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into the passions of its own . without disreasoning about and ethics , the areas in which the liberal world order continues to outshine an alternative , liberals need to connect with those on the emotional level .
in studying physics , students study algebra simultaneously , motivating them with a sense of strength in math . other industrial nations can cycle through pieces of disciplines , missing out on the essential consistency of a p-c-b sequence . this sequence of study has been devised in 1893 countries . i believe it is obsolete , pedagogically disastrously , and ignores the tremendous scientific breakthroughs of the twentieth century . in studying physics , students study alzheimer ’s at the same time , motivating them with a sense of strength in math .
owing to today ’s technological breakthroughs , the proportion of overall income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining worldwide . but , in britain in 1842 , income taxes became a systemic , permanent feature of the us economy . until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise the funds for trade wars . many at that time rejected policies completely , warning that doing so would erode incentives and put the economy on a sounder footing . fortunately , their hue , and the cry , is going unheeded .
before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) limit . yet sticking to europe , forcing all of the adjustment in wage risk risks greater unrest ; indeed , it may simply postpone the inevitable . while talk is tough now , the history of such an agreement does not inspire optimism . governments and the bond market will test the severity of the newly agreed fiscal guidelines ( as long as it is ratified ) . in the us , the 1980 ’s deficit-reduction limits set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law did not exist , and , like the sgp , have been revised and prolonged .
between mtfa , efsm , and payments to non-member eu countries , total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . such leveraging of the eu would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the efsm ’s successor ) and mtfa . between mtfa , efsm , and payments to third eu countries , total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period may be feasible while upholding the medium-term objective of a more balanced budget . following the request of an eu member state , the eu would have the right to borrow on capital markets as part of an implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum amounts determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( preallocated ) structural and cohesion funds .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue killing the whales is no less motivated than the environmentalists ’ opposition to it . it is this tradition that they wish to continue , probably because some japanese are emotionally attuned to it . japan does have one argument that it is less easily dismissed . it is this tradition that they wish to continue , probably because some japanese are emotionally linked to it . eating whales is not necessary for health or better nutrition .
the bad news is that financial capital is shifting abroad to fund other overleveraged conglomerates . canceling taxes on the realized capital gains raised equities ’ sales enormously . the removal of taxing taxes on the realized capital gains raised equities ’ sales enormously . the international equity fund stepped in , giving firms urgently needed liquidity , while disentangling the country ’s traditional ownership networks . the bad news is that financial capital is shifting abroad to finance other overleveraged conglomerates . inc.
at that point , any realistic policy must start with accepting a reality that full , full , verifiable denuclearization is no realistic prospect anytime soon . the talks would most likely be suspended ; the us would return to where the us was two years ago , but with an overlay of recrimination and mistrust . there is a huge difference between the north koreans armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and insincere missile launches , and one with dozens of advanced weaponry likely to be mounted on precision long-range missile systems , capable of reaching america . indeed , even absent such a development , drift toward protectionism is not a desirable conclusion . north korea could take advantage of the passage of time to raise its nuclear stockpile in its arsenal , making some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems without overt testing .
something fundamental , then , has changed in the russian economy . for russia , august 1998 , i pointed out that dividing lines are dividing the line . fortunately , bond markets are dead and may last a year or more to revive . their absence makes investing excessively large amounts of money in russian securities more difficult to borrow . a time comes when all of the disasters occurred and all stupidities is recognized .
the contrast between this dynamic surrounding space for open protest , and for saudi arabia , could hardly be starker . nowhere else in the world do we see modernity experience as such a problem . saudi women , for their part , find themselves living in a kind of petrified system . walking , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with their compatriots , motivated partly by social demands – above all for their own empowerment . saudi women , for their part , find themselves living in the petrified system .
in that scenario , one will need to forgo all the well-known economic advantages of a global division of labor . we can identify important swings during the history of crony capitalism in the past two centuries , either toward a market or a nation-state . after wwi , the pendulum is shifting back to the nation-state . between the two extremes lies in much the rest of the world as it emerges , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . the uk ’s repeal of its maize laws , for example , in 1846 favored the free market in international trade , accelerating globalization until after world war ii .
but the “ perfect storm ” ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , together with the resulting meltdown of the three reactor fleet at the fukushima daiichi plant , has gone well beyond any scenario that was previously envisaged . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency blueprint for a situation that they faced in contaminated areas , resulting in an ad hoc response marked by inefficiencies and poor communication , particularly regarding the radiological risk involved . japan has a powerful international reputation when it comes to managing its natural disaster . local communities started immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside of evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools , for example ) in tandem with the efforts of japan ’s atomic energy agency ( iea ) to develop remediation technologies within such zones . despite such challenges , effective action to evacuate those at risk , and to reduce potential hazard from the consumption of contaminated foodor .
today , with both kirchner and chávez off the picture , that period of left-wing populism is drawing to a close . in addition , she now faces a legislative election in impoverished areas of poor health , following surgery to strip the subdural hematoma in chile . more recently , she suffered a resounding defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional election , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks the experience and impact of foreign affairs . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks the experience and impact in foreign affairs .
if systemically important national financial institutions ’ decisions are to be made at the european level in good times , while in bad times , national taxpayers pick up the tab , the whole eu as a whole will lose . more important , should the council announce a state of financial emergency , like the one in which the us is in place today , eu agencies may exceptionally turn out to be given a position of predominance over national supervisors . needless to say , “ “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future situations most likely to matter for national policymakers and taxpayers alike . the three new agencies will not only enforce the common technical standards that may eventually become binding across the eu if endorsed by the european commission , but they will also be permitted to settle disputes among national supervisors . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers .
yet the cause is all too well known : war against an education is being fought . the number of casualties in both assam remains unknown , but the number of casualties that are causing the death toll . more than 28 million non-schoolchildren are growing up in conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , france , myanmar , and south sudan . there were two more attacks by schoolchildren this week on schoolchildren both in afghanistan , one in which staff is bludgeoned and bombs set off , and another at neighboring schoolchildren in which the classroom is sprayed with bullets . all are vulnerable to extremist violence , and these are also vulnerable to conflict .
one hopes that this task has been made slightly easier by the publication of a book in which the copenhagen consensus economists boil down to its insights . here is one thing to consider : the full death toll of the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) fits each month by the number of casualties worldwide of hiv/aids worldwide . a comprehensive prevention program , with the help of free or inexpensive condoms and information of safe sexuality to the regions hardest hit by hiv/aids would cost $ 27 trillion , saving more than 28 million lives . the social benefits would outweigh the costs , from $ 40 per person to one in the next . this , say , the economists who participate in the copenhagen consensus , makes it the single best investments the world can possibly make .
the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions into question . japan , brazil , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed keen to keep the value of the us dollar relatively high , and their central banks have piled up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . china ’s government regards the threat of capital flight from its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in offshore manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have become accustomed to convenient lifestyles . louis uchitelle of the new york-based catherine mann commenting on a “ co-dependent relationship … between america and its trading partners ” that may “ last for quite some time , ” because “ the u.s. and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ”
washington , dc – not long ago , the disconnect between financial supervision and monetary policy came in vogue in many countries . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles were viewed in many cases as essentially innocuous , or at least as a relatively inconsequential monetary-policy channel . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle those functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies , and to extricate their central banks from financial-supervisory issues altogether . in the wake of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management were forced to re-unify . this rapprochement marks the growing recognition that asset-price cycles must account for both macroeconomic management and financial oversight .
a lot of theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . and yet this is precisely what many governments are obliged to do : pursuing both growth and distributional fairness . a great deal of theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . that idea matters much in the area of trade policy today . seoul – if one chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both will get away with it .
one possibility , suggested by my ex-colleague former american trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would present a major impetus to rekindle the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . mexico already has the eu ’s fta with the us , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , it will need a harmonized agreement on nafta and the ttip . the ttip is not just a matter of america and the eu . meanwhile , the world as a whole still accounts for over half of world gdp , and the bulk of global trade and fdi trade and fdi flows are wondering how the ttip affects each .
indeed , the sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto the banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone as a whole . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst , it is not the only threatening the global economy . as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe is rising . to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be far more gradual ; the growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact ; and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) should be undertaken . alas , germany resists all of these key policy measures , because it is fixated on the credit risk that its taxpayers would be subjected to greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration . indeed , the sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto the banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone .
this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the sort of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit the two countries next to impossible . but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s ’s behavior sends is far from a peaceful one . indeed , chinese leaders seem to take advantage of the opening afforded by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide se of asia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s oceans . this contends , for example , that its efforts to establish bases in the indian ocean and augment its blue-water navy are geared toward safeguarding the malacca straits , a sea-trading pathway that is perceived as a choke point for the chinese economy . to be sure , china contends that its intentions toward india are peaceful .
on the other hand , charts would place tough demands on ukraine and georgia . too many question signs of their national unity say that they exist , too many internal conflicts linger , and their record on political and judicial reforms is supposedly dubious . european opponents of the map of ukraine and georgian states argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . but the map process does not imply an automatic right of nato membership . far from being allowed to join , both would have to respond to many hard questions , and to persuade others that they are in a position to live up to nato ’s democratic requirements before they are allowed to join .
but , like donald trump , it was le pen who ran as the “ people ’s voice , ” ” ” ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , portrays trump as the puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and an international plutocrats . left-wing parties began losing out – at a faster rate – in some countries than others , their bottom line in the industrial “ working class . ” there is little doubt that something had been shifted in the final decades of the twentieth century . redistribution of wealth became progressively less important than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minority groups . so what are left left and right still means , if anything ?
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons , given the north korean threat and its diminishing faith in america ’s reliability and its guarantees to protect its nuclear forces . the risk in both regions is that a race to acquiring nuclear weapons could trigger a preemptive war . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would heighten the temptation for one or another country to strike the first time in times of a crisis . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquiring nuclear weapons could trigger a preemptive war . “ using them ” or losing them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when capabilities are not robust enough to absorb attacks and yet mete out the sort of devastating retaliation that is necessary for effective deterrence .
at a 2013 summit meeting in sunnylands in california , us president barack obama showed china as chinese president xi jinping the proof that chinese military members were stealing us industrial technologies . because that is no longer enough to stop other chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , the new nsa rightly stresses that america ’s government will take additional steps to halt it . the chinese accepted evidence , agreeing that theft of industrial technologies is different from other forms of espionage , saying that the chinese government will not help such theft in the future . because this is no longer enough to halt other chinese theft of us civilian and military technologies , the new nsa rightly stresses that america ’s government will take additional steps to halt it . this emphasis on boosting exports rather than reduce imports is a welcome feature .
after chinese leaders faced international criticism and worsening relations with america , japan , indonesia , indonesia , indonesia , and other countries , they chose to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy . many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power , with america falling into decline . china , for its part , miscalculated by deviating from a smart-power strategy and violating deng ’s dictum that china should pursue cautiously and “ skillfully hold ” a low profile . indeed , over-confidence in assessing its power led to increasingly assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . but such narratives can stem the tide of conflict .
but , ever since , the country has been running into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking aid by the international monetary fund . though they have been committed to an ambitious program of reform , argentina ’s economic and financial institutions , too , have made a number of avoidable blunders . as it stands , the country ’s economic and financial fundamentals have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have been unequally invoked , and the central bank has squandered its credibility at key moments . argentina has slipped back into crisis because of the simple reason that it has not enough to change since its latest debacle .
attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after the fact . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who are contributing to a survey by professional forecasters predicted a drop in gdp in the last few months ; indeed , gdp shrank by more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drops on record . the trouble lies with the fact that many leading indicators used to measure an economy rely on off-date , incomplete , or flawed , data . forecasters , for example , calculate real gdp based on the initial monthly gdp estimates of quarterly gdp growth – a statistic that is often substantially revised as more data become available . as a result , forecasts lag behind reality .
at issue is the attempt to halt an epidemic , the bearers of which in the 20th century europe was nazism , communism , fascism , and , now , nationalism . nato , for the first time , intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict , which , for one party at least , entails no strategy considerations , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . nato , for the first time ever , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . this amounts to an important change in nato ’s foreign policy , which downgrades the notion of states ’ sovereignty and elevates the position of ethical norms into international relations .
policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to generate a level playing field and help to build industrial capacity . building codes already guard against dangers like fire and earthquakes . california ’s latest construction and appliance norms are expected to avoid the need for five major power plants over the next ten years . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore now agree to green buildings . california ’s latest construction and appliance norms are expected to avoid requiring five major power plants over the next ten years .
this has forced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent security council members , to vote against a sanctions resolution . rather than attempt to explore the options presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , america was quick to press the un security council for more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . yet efforts to preempt america ’s strategy have clearly failed , because the new un sanctions were undertaken earlier this month . as the agreement sought to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why was there so much outrage in both america and the west ? i fear it is because the american people have found themselves denying their primacy in setting global policy toward iran .
if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are consistent with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid a higher ratio , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than spur , economic performance . there is also the question of reversing causality , too . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise for those in economic trouble countries . they have chosen with no explanation , dividing debt-to-gdp ratios in the subsequent categories : from 30 % to 30-60 % , 60-90 % , and above 90 % . and they have turned out to show that the growth rate will decline in all categories , as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only slightly more in the last category .
new york – many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protests are driven by the widespread conviction that the united nations ’ intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us just 12 years to be left to save the planet . solar and wind together currently account for about 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this will reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . this , too , is why the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition , ” than most people realize . as a result , the policies that have led people and firms to shift toward immature technology will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty . many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protests are driven by the widespread conviction that the un intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us just 12 years ago to reach just 4.1 % .
he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local physician for services , and of course home in uganda . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money circulating in african countries . the drop in remittances , however , has been cuts in both ways . in fact , remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . a ugandan doctor at work in norway , for example , cares little about the costs of beer in kampala .
in europe , on the other hand , the eu is placing more weight on risk avoidance , undercutting private-sector trust in investing in innovation . but alleviating all risk is impossible , which aims to avoid success . the eu ’s goal of protecting human health and the eu as a whole is laudable . in europe , on the other hand , greater weight is placed on fueling risk avoidance , undermining private-sector trust in investment in innovation . this notion of risk underpins economic interactions .
ramallah – the palestinians and israelis both have very different and perhaps contradictory expectations since the indirect deliberations that the united states has been pushing both sides to begin . it is now clear that , for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s likud government , initiating indirect talks without freezing settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem constitutes a real victory for all of them . for the palestinians , a return to the talks , however indirect , has focused on one strategic question : borders . israel has been among the first parties to greet the arab league ’s ’s reluctant decision to return palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to surrender their blessing to talks . just to remind the world of this , as indirect talks have been preparing to withdraw hamas from the ground , israel ’s ’s government has approved a decision to breach ground on the 112 us housing units in bethlehem ’s settlement south and the 1600 new settlements units in east jerusalem .
consider the other disruptive events , which are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and even tornadoes trigger imminent federal assistance . contrary to moral hazard , market failures emphasize the circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . that the failures of international capital markets led to the sudden and destructive capital outflows of the post-1996 period of 1996 is just one such episode . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and nadoes trigger imminent federal assistance .
that is leading european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their failed policies as long as the economic powers intensify . as margaret thatcher made clear during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates controls european politics . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off the democracy of the eu , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . handing european money and policies to the cartel administration did not only spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . as a result , though european countries remained democratic , eu institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions , have remained democracy-free .
both moody ’s and the standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at just their fourth-highest level . almost six months later , total damage remains hard to be predicted . both moody ’s and the standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at just their fourth-highest level . and now , the country has been absorbing another massive blow : another downgrade of its bond ratings . tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that hit japan in march – is far superior to the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios .
israel ’s state-of-the-art iranian anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all of the crude missiles launched in gaza . even if the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be guaranteed , many might still have evade defensive systems . moreover , the iranian regime has forged a web of proxy forces throughout the region . proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , the iraqi shi’a militias , and hezbollah , which controls south lebanon and possesses thousands of rockets ready to target israel . syria and iraq have become crucial links in the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon .
indeed , rasheed notes that at each american film screening , audiences need to be given an apology before starting to concern rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as his country ’s representative . as both iraq and other muslim intellectuals in the region frequently repeat themselves : “ “ “ books ” are written in egypt , print in lebanon , reading in iraq . here is the hope that raheed and his colleagues continue to build up the iraqi culture that is both vibrant and free ; here , it is hoped , the relationship between the us and the international audiences to rasheed is going from one of the expiations of one of his work . indeed , rasheed notes that at every american film screening , audiences must be given a apology before starting to concern rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as his country ’s representative . iraqis , ravaged by war and now buffeted by violence , are well known to be the most intellectually inclined of arab countries .
and , as recent european post-crisis experience has demonstrated , undertaking structural reform is politically difficult when vested interests captured the regulatory system . yet china ’s problems extend far beyond the structural imbalances to two types of cyclical macroeconomic risk . the first risk-off stems from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and the growth rate are rising and falling together . that is why chinese president xi jinping ’s administration has been engaging in an all-embracing anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as a power grab – since assuming office in 2012 . complicating matters further for china , the rush to build an open , market-driven economy fueled corruption and rent-seeking .
economic globalization has been shown to lower infant mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to rising incomes and improved information . moreover , at the same time , trade carries much broader benefits to society as a whole . in america , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity substantially . in uganda , freer trade has been shown to lengthen the mean life expectancy of 2-3 years . what more , “ free trade ” is good news for the environment , ” ” ” ” ” to quote one academic study .
inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funds to accepting migrants , eu member states also should be working to create stronger incentives for cooperation . but , as tempting as may may be , attempting to paper over differences or avoid dissent – much less destroying the compact at the heart of the european project – makes no issue any more straightforward . there is little question that it is hard for the 27 sovereign countries to act as alone . lasting structured defense cooperation , agreed by the council of the european council last december , is a good place to begin , with countries rising to include , for example , joint strategic planning at the european level . the only way europe needs to go is through a realistic , gradual effort to build unity .
to be sure , news media are under assault like never before , and not only from fake news and ever more polarizing presidents . and yet the fresh glimmers of hope are multiplying . the slaying of nine male journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to the grim global tally . globally , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in encouraging ways . according to un reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists have been killed worldwide in just the past 15 years , bringing only a handful of perpetrators to justice .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for much of the world ’s population , but just 15 % of its gdp . now , billions of people have lifted themselves out of poverty , and are wealthier , healthier , and have even greater opportunities . this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseen corollaries . yet , not so long ago , almost no one saw it coming . future historians may well remember this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date .
polish foreign minister radosław osław sikorski ’s recent call for a more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how very different poland ’s worldview today . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet union warned , any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . nurturing suspicions of who had been aided by whom they helped drive wedges among different groups . at the same time , communist governments emphasized how incoherent the opposition had been , owing to tensions inherent in the marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , conservative catholics , and hindu nationalists . indeed , it responded to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , the stalking horse for american or german interests that ultimately exploit ordinary poles .
but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the determination to do just that ( though he may choose to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring more women into their hands ) . as the leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches to elect more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio to female mps . it is also disturbing to see that some women abe has picked up for his cabinet , and key party posts are arch-conservatives , who advocate keeping women stay at home and caring for their children . things are just as bad at low levels in the government , where women account for just 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , over 40 % of whom do not have female members at all .
some researchers suggest that average human lifespan could reach 90 years , or perhaps more by mid-century . but what if our wish is taken for granted ? the fundamental difficulty of planning for enhanced longevity is that we have no idea about whether it will actually happen . what good lives longer if we can not maintain our standard of living ? living a long time horizon is one of our deepest wishes , and both medical and economic breakthroughs offer the hope of fulfilling them .
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to antagonize political and business elites , who have long benefited from his tight grip on power . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for partisan independence and religious policies , as well as a talent for communicating with the people . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto has ’s cross-party “ ” cross-party pact for mexico ” might serve as a useful model . and , like an economic outsider , he finds herself in a unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , unified future , and vault with the country , ’s pantheon pantheon is being established . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ ” pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the next g20 summit should implement a fundamental fsb reform . it should give the fsb a legal personality , enshrined in the international treaty . currently , the board has no formal status and only a tiny , though high-quality , standing staff , hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , with the fsb given powers to direct the next standard setters , review implementation of norms by individual countries , and publicize the outcomes . the imf is far too political a body to act as a systemic-risk watchdog .
both feminist chants and crude chords were secondary to the spectacle , too . scores of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , have rallied around the support of women . at the same time , the case for attracting the attention of the west , too . to be sure , pussy riot could hardly be categorized as musicians . at the same time , the case has attracted a growing interest in creating a visual picture .
moreover , tony chukwueke , the gdpr of the dpp , has announced plans to establish an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run national petroleum corporation , and transform the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm capable of dominating the market in the gulf of guinea and other emerging-market countries . in the early 1990s , desperately short of hard currencies , nigeria was negotiating treaties permitting its national oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investments before sharing profits . now , following the companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats nominated by yar ’ adua to take charge of an oil policy to bridge the shortcoming . the petroleum ministry ’s petroleum resources ( gdpr ) , the us oil industry ’s regulatory agency , has denounced these claims , vowing to impose a hefty slice of the us pie . now , following the companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , the technocrats nominated by yar ’ adua to take charge of an oil policy want nigeria to acquire a bigger slice of the pie .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , the terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ “ “ “ “ war on terror ” was launched . the damage was especially marked in russia , where anti-terror regulations were often used as an instrument of muffle voices from those offering independent or alternative views , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . freedom of speech and personal privacy , governments claimed , would have to be curbed . but us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not all of it ; many countries , too , ramped up the surveillance and policing of their domestic media and ordinary citizens . by using security as a pretext to flout russia ’s past media legislation , which explicitly protects journalists from censorship , the government undermined journalism vastly .
but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your high representative owes you , ” not his industry only , but his judgment and betrays , rather than serve you when it sacrifices to your views . the colombian opponents of the paris peace deal , for example , appealed to the universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by both the army and the farc , rather than national particularism , as occurred in the united kingdom and the netherlands . populist campaigns in major referenda this year differed in important respects . and all were willing to follow a tradition of dictators and resorting to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims . yet , all have been motivated by a desire to scuttle governments and the institutions they oppose .
in other words , bad behavior , or even supposedly bad behavior , may taint an artistic work , because the performer can not be divorced from his or her own arts . but now that we are aware of accusations against the comedian and film director , we are forced , in scott ’s view , to reappraise the work in this light . this is , at least , an even more interesting proposition than the notion that the arts should be disqualified simply because we dislike the performer behaved in the private sector . there can be something inherently sinister and immoral in movies . to the bookish young man , allen , the anxious intellectual who still gets a girl , has been a sort of role model .
and indonesia ’s special tribunal for corruption crimes crimes has just been condemned by the country ’s former energy and mineral resources minister , jerusalem , to just four years in jail . guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and has been subsequently jailed on charges of corruption . journalism , for its part , has played an even larger role , as is the case with the rest of the world . guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to step down , and has been subsequently jailed for corruption . and indonesia ’s special tribunal for corruption crimes has just been sentenced by the country ’s former energy and mineral resources minister , jerusalem , to just four years in jail .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proven hard to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers are far more likely to continue to expand their countries ’ dependence on funding , thus relieving the risks of disorderly market adjustments than they are to undertake difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustment . for one thing , policymakers are far more likely to continue to expand their countries ’ dependence on funding , thereby alleviating the risk of disorderly market adjustments , than they do to undertake difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustment . most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article based on a secret documentary that reveals how breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are receiving “ treatment ” as a component of russia ’s sovereign territory . the revelations have cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustrations of ukraine ’s government . the document gathered by bild is a report by russia ’s “ “ inter-governmental ” meeting to deliver humanitarian aid to the affected areas in southeast india of abuja and luhansk regions . the bild document is a report by the october october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-governmental commission ” to deliver humanitarian aid to affected areas in southeast india ’s arunachal pradesh and luhansk regions . working groups cooperating with the russian authorities were established to govern the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy , and transportation infrastructure , as well as trade .
let us be extremely clear , too , about “ renegotiating ” the terms of eu membership , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the sanctuary to those who wish to leave but want to persuade people that it really is just an adjustment of relations . but they wo n’t thank the us , and will not accommodate the us , either . if britain focuses over the coming years on its own terms of not how it can help europe recover and thrive ; but , rather , how it can change its own relations with europe , there should be little doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners will bring to that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of politeness , and we will have to do so . if britain focuses on the coming years not on how it can help europe recover and thrive , but rather on how it can change its own relations with europe , there should be little doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners bring to that negotiation .
it also deprives the continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” gender equity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars represent the world in ways that should be done . but they need the help , with programs offering both scholarships and endorsements , among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . africa ’s stem gender imbalances are often compared to a leaky pipe : girls begin out of interest and aptitude , but drop off disciplines at different points in their education .
and yet farfetched a global currency may sound , remember that , before world war i , ditching the gold standard seemed just as implausible . the advantages of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . global firms waste time and resources on largely futile hedge currency risk efforts ( benefiting only banks acting as middlemen ) . different monies are not just a nuisance for tourists who arrive home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coins . the existing system is both a risky and inefficient world .
in the past , transition agreements amounted to what george orwell called a catastrophic gradualism . in the past , transition agreements amounted to what george orwell called a catastrophic gradualism . but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could turn out to be a auspicious gradualism . their offer – which would have to go well beyond the 2002 arab peace initiative , or the portfolio of relevant un resolutions – may even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of a transition to a final settlement . after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically enhancing the peace settlement ’s chances of a long-term success .
these are not politicians , but former idealists who are glad that their islamicizing goals are being realized . in fact , most are the anti-umno and the support of the pas . her phrase has been roundly with the support of the modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that the punishment is justly invoked and can not be called into question , because it has divine sanction . as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between an islamic lobby that presses more “ talibanization ” for the country , and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to remain in power . kartika ’s caning , by contrast , is hardly an example of political manipulation and , for that reason , even more worrisome .
it would probably seek to expand and deepen the us-south korea trans-pacific partnership , the trade deal that us president barack obama has committed to america last year . above all , the us would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because it might indeed want the united asia-pacific economic community , rather than the division between asia and the indo-pacific . because japan would not wish to be disconnected from the us on strategic grounds , it may actually accept america ’s invitation . above all , the us would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because the us may want the united asia-pacific economic community , rather than the division between asia and the indo-pacific . under this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and us-centered indo-pacific .
but , while it quietly makes many important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus unable to reach forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . for the boj , the fundamental problem is its deep-seated institutional fear of rocking the boe politically and , therefore , its inability to play the role of a chief economist . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands a super-normal degree of influence . this is the unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s design by a team of nation states , which has yet to decide whether one prefers more unity or more decentralized . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands a super-normal degree of influence .
these outcomes were foreshadowed by a study last year by anne case and angus deaton showing that life expectancy has been on the decline of large segments of the population – including america ’s so-called “ angry ” rust belt men . but , with bottom 90 % of us incomes experiencing stagnation for a half a century ( and falling for a substantial share ) , health data have simply confirmed that things are not going very well for very large swaths of the country . and , while america may be at an extremes of that trend , things have been little better elsewhere . why has this backlash appeared just come at a time when the us economy appears on the mend , rather than earlier ? but , if it seemed obvious that there would have been some political consequences , its form and timing are far less apparent .
indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s ’s ’s ’s right to exist , whereas hamas will not abandon its identity as an opposition movement simply to join the negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal demands . it would require bold statesmanship to turn the cease-fire with hamas in the prelude to political talks . aside from the annapolis talks , which seem to be going nowhere , owing to the parties ’ incontrovertible differences over core issues , all of the other peace efforts are more tactical than strategic . in neither of them are the conditions yet to exist for an immediate jump from war to peace , or do the parties themselves expect to happen . for israel , a cease-fire reflects its reluctance to become mired in yet another asymmetrical war , like the one that it fought in lebanon two summers ago in an alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps .
for their part , other eu member countries would need to decide whether to keep the euro in its truncated form , or revert to their own national currencies , perhaps pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or the franc . whatever their decisions , the eurozone ’s price competitiveness as a whole would improve substantially . to be sure , france and germany would have to undertake intermediate arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability . precisely because germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , the intellectual sub or of european unification , should announce its simultaneous exit from the euro and reinstatement of the deutsche mark and the franc . that would have triggered the immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark – and perhaps of the cfa franc – relative to the euro .
other autocratic rulers in the muslim world learn from iran on a recent basis , cracking down on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just someone with their ideas and wishes to exchange them with others . in its muslim era , iran has boasted of some of the world ’s greatest poets , writers , and some of the world ’s researchers . thus , the 1979 islamic revolutionaries made a point of preserving zakoroastrian fire temples . none of this would have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers failed to permit academic freedom and free exchange of thought and expression – something that is sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorists , bombarding their intellectualism regimes .
its direct ties with us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish it from existing arrangements . originally , asean leadership groups could cover representatives from a core group of states , such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states directly empowered and linked to their own presidents and prime ministers . the leadership group would be ’s first priority to deal with today ’s current crisis . its direct ties with us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish it from existing arrangements . to secure broad membership and transparency across europe and within existing structures , nato leadership should include an osce representative , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato .
finally , there are two major differences between the 1930s and present . the industrial world now has far greater reliance on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it once was . as some trust returns in the early years of recapitalized the banking system and long bond yields collapse with falling inflation , mortgages and other borrowing rates will fall and the monetary transmission mechanisms will revive , encouraging economic activity and stabilizing the real house price , albeit at substantially lower levels . the other critical difference is the fact that we know enough not to repeat mistakes , especially trade protectionism in the 1930 ’s . the extreme rise in real oil prices was the culprit in the current recession , and its reversal will feature prominently in the recovery .
terrorists struck europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing from wars and starvation taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . yet dark clouds have taken shape on the horizon . terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and starvation taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . to be sure , our expectations will always be at odds with tensions with reality . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new wall street , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a dismal truth ” ” ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ”
a cooperative us-russia relationship is vital if the international system , now almost dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . denver – an agreement on syria ’s possession of chemical weapons reached by russia , and the united states is important not so much for what it may mean on earth – which remains to be seen as inspectors start flowing into syria , hoping that chemical-weapons stockpiles are beginning to collapse . rather , the deal ’s core significance consists of striking signs of being struck at all : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva that most traditional us diplomatic venues and cut an agreement on an intensive issue . an agreement on syria ’s ’s possession of chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what it may mean on the ground that it remains to be seen as inspectors start flowing into syria , and us hopes , chemical-weapons stockpiles are beginning to collapse . in the days , weeks and months ahead , the arrangements to eliminate chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , start a new era in which america and russia are working together on other pressing global issues just as they do .
capital is in a much better position than labor , because capital is more mobile . moreover , financial capital is better situated in the global system than industrial capital ; as soon as the plant exists , it is hard to move . there is also the advantage of being at the center of the global economy , rather than the periphery . to be sure , transnational corporations are enjoying the flexibility of transfer pricing , and they can exert pressures at a time when new investment decisions are made , but their flexibility does not match the liberty that international portfolio investors enjoy . there is also the benefit of being at the center of the global economy , rather than the periphery .
as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude crude oil spot prices are less subject to more speculative fluctuations , and therefore purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand-demand factors . i have long defaulted on the five-year forward prize for the lack of an ever more fundamentals-based approach to think of an equilibrium oil price . for my part , i am uncertain ; but i would not have been surprised had it occurred . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude crude crude oil spot prices are less subject to more speculative fluctuations , and therefore purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand-demand factors . the graph i prepared – made prior to the latest oil-price acceleration of early november – shows the five-year forward oil-price plunge .
the dpj was established in 1998 as the jambalaya ” party , consisting of people exiting the ldp , including hatoyama himself and the former socialist party ( ccp ) . but the greatest problem with hatoyama ’s rule is that the dpj assumed power , without a cohesive national security policy . the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s rule , however , is that the dpj assumed power without a cohesive national security policy . the dpj , for its part , is its anti-ldp stance , whereas the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes koizumi ’s era ’s privatizations . this should not have been a surprise to anyone .
as a result , many regard defense expenditures as a luxury , if not an outright waste of money . the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible enemies at present . drafting an effective nation ’s defense is unthinkable , without much greater or no participation by all of the state ’s institutions . time and again , it must be recalled , and again , that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of each of us . in a democratic state , these engage in defense efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of defense at the forefront .
more investment could enable researchers to discover new microbial strains with unique capacity to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve its agricultural productivity . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover benefits for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resultant research could spur the emergence of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for spillover benefits from this kind of research . my own work on auburn soil microbes has resulted in the issuance of three us patents , with a few agricultural firms pursuing market rights to improve agricultural productivity .
iran backed the us during its first gulf war , but was abandoned from the madrid peace conference . and , with american forces overrunning saddam hussein ’s army in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians had proposed a grand bargain that would place all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . at the same time , iranians supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . at the same time , iranians supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . in the american-iranian equation , not iran , that has been waging rigid ideological diplomacy .
and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and an extensive upgrading of its nuclear arsenal . at the same time , america has been pursuing military primacy for a long time . in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 intermediate-range anti-ballistic missile treaty ( abm ) treaty . more recently , putin made this clear by unveiling a multitude of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call an “ preemptive deterrence ” strategy . still , russia , china , and the outside world will not permit a return to american hegemony .
it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim . yet , in copenhagen , the structure established by the lisbon treaty failed . it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim . beyond its failures in copenhagen , the eu has several other problems . with just 7 % of its population ( and its rapidly shrinking population ) and comprising mostly post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly viewed as a peripheral country .
but larger firms also have bigger capacity to become a good power , both locally and globally . the same goes for wages and labor practices . when corporate size of america ’s retailer walmart decides not to permit wasteful packaging , its purchasing power will lead to changes in packaging across the retail sector . those that operate in an ethical manner and seek to improve the lives of everyone connected to manufacture , marketing , and distributing their goods will enjoy benefits for kudos , more business , or simply not being singled out as a rogue actor . when the world ’s largest firms and most well recognized brands take seriously their responsibilities , as buyers , sellers , and producers make a firm commitment to core values , others tend to follow or risk being left behind .
but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country are not being made . simply put , the western countries are not working . there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and the 40 international ngos involved in providing aid to the pakistanis . this can be seen most clearly in my own country , pakistan . despite the massive growth in aid dollars of aid money in recent years , including the billions authorized by former us president barack obama by former us president barack obama , those on the ground are cut off from the delivery process .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ “ “ “ our ” desire to supply energy for all needs to not lead to the undesired impact of an extreme climate change spiral , owing to the catastrophic rise of global temperatures , an harsher environment , and rising levels of poverty . and he reminded executives that “ “ civilization ” requires energy , but the use of energy must not bring down civilization ! francis has underscored the moral dimension of the problem , and we need to do so in the short term . the same level of corruption is what makes the canadian government guarantee of a new pipeline to export output from its polluting , and expensive petroleum sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewable-energy sources . it has been clear that oil companies are engaged in “ continued searches ” for new fossil-fuel reserves , whereas the paris agreement clearly urged to keep most fossil fuels underground .
likewise , in the united kingdom and elsewhere , healthy livestock were fed up with meat and bone foods made from an infected livestock . the resulting epizootic ( the animal epidemic ) had affected more than 280,000 cows , with the help of millions of women . and , almost identical , invariably deadly diseases , kuru , who had ravaged aboriginal aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie are are infectious , and they are leading the way . kuru has been transmitted through the cannibalistic rituals that are commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s .
all of this slowdown in social mobility , the tears of already-stretched safety net , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine fears of today ’s operating and sustainability . in the coming round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with sound balance sheets that are unable to acquire it , and those unable to acquire them are highly problematic . this includes those reliant on bank credit , as do many of the subprime mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their homes in the marketplace . all of this slowing social mobility , the tears of already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine fears about how today ’s global economic system operates . in the coming round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with sound balance sheets would do little , accelerating their disengagement from the deleveraging world economy .
only a few groups remained : the shining route in peru , manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for short periods of the zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . only a few groups remained : the shining route in peru , manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for short periods of zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . in country after country , guerillas were beaten by guerillas , pacified , brought into the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant . everywhere else , for whatever combination of misguided strategies , tactical flaws , erroneous theories , u.s. interventions , etc. , faced with only a defeat , repression , and futility . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere made guerilla warfare unjustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , perhaps , one might add , realities ) of the democratic rule prevailed , take arms was nonsensical .
today , the social foundation of left-wing politics has vanished . european fascism imploded with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but with less aggressive forms living in elsewhere , like argentina with its peronism . the only political space left behind for fascism was the petit of the bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and a low-level civil servant . at that time , the working class dependably supported the parties of the left . the social base of interwar fascism made it reasonably reasonable to view it as the right party .
it was supposed to be organized and proceed with the due respect to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information had been relayed to the greek people . in that case , the event was supposed to reflect that complexity . it was meant to be organized and proceed with the due respect of the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information had been relayed to greece . in that case , the event was supposed to reflect that complexity . instead , greece obtained a hastily organized referendum .
for some , the moral framework on which human rights are offered is sufficient in itself ; but , for others , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ the language of human rights hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” moreover , various communities prioritize human rights in different forms . in france , obvious tensions arise not only between europeans and middle-easterners ’ physical integrity , but also between their parental rights and the authority of nations , multiculturalism , and nationalism , as well as its religious and secular moral perspectives . in other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping human rights interpretations than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be vigilant about passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . like science cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision has been suffering in conflict between europeans and middle-easterners for centuries .
now , china ’s new leaders have enchanted a new pancha , with chinese president xi jinping offering a $ five-point proposal for sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relations with regard to the glorious panchsheela : mutual respect for one another ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-interference in one another ’s domestic affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and a peaceful co-existence . india would be glad to embrace each of these principles . its updated principles would uphold strategic communications and sound bilateral relations ; harness one another ’s strengths and expanding infrastructure cooperation ; investment and other fields ; deepen cultural ties and enhance mutual understanding and friendships ; expand coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . new delhi – in sino-indian relations – has been doing something about the number of five in sino-indian relations . now , china ’s new leaders have enchanted a new panchsheela , with chinese president xi jinping , with chinese president xi jinping , on offer an annual five-point proposal for sino-indian relations .
the result has been a disaster in africa , with its farm productivity stagnant for decades to come . for 25 years , the bank tried to bring governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . at the same time , the bank pushed for the privatization of domestic health systems , water utilities , and roads and power networks , as well as grossly under-financed these critical industries . the practical development strategy recognizes the need for public investment in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure to complement private investment . at the same time , the bank pushed for the privatization of domestic health systems , water utilities , and roads and power networks , and grossly under-financed these critical industries .
in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to seize a leeway for foreign leaders to surrender him . meanwhile , the perception that he has an american on the ropes enables putin to continue silencing his opponents . putin ’s authority may seem an unshakeable , but he is in fact propped up by propaganda and fear . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny ’s cronies were convicted of embezzlement , granting the government an excuse to bar him from the ballot box . when american betrays his own values to avoid challenging russia , it strengthens putin ’s hand considerably .
with energy prices shifting center stage , there is a risk that already-weak investment incentives in low-carbon energy sources will erode further . the uk ’s recent debates illustrate the looming fault lines . just five years ago , britain breached the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an increase of 80 % of gdp in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , eu political leaders have been openly attacking “ burdensome ” green taxes . across europe , calls for the affordable energy ” are quick to become a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and the rollback of green-energy commitments .
moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity in order to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese , particularly the middle class , who once had high hopes for reform , to become increasingly disillusioned . indeed , for all its practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . a cabinet kleptocracy , their families , and well-connected businessmen have colonized the chinese state , and are intent on blocking any reforms that might endanger their underprivileged status . simultaneously , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
negotiations to “ de-alert ” america ’s 2,000 nuclear weapons , which remain at an absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness , have never actually begun . with the exception of yet another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , news about the disarmament front over the past year has certainly been dismal . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed states have voiced the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers now host 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , are making further large-scale cuts . cautious initial moves by the us to amend its nuclear doctrine , in order to accept that nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” are responding to a nuclear threat and not some other kind – – have gone nowhere . negotiations to “ de-alert ” america ’s 2,000 nuclear weapons , which remain at an absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness , have never actually begun .
indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left polo alternativo democratico . but uribe ’s apparent defeat extends well beyond colombia . in the process , he has transformed a country running into the grip of drug barons and near the brink of becoming a failed state . the professionalism in colombia ’s armed forces , in line with uribe ’s popularity and an expanding economy , have delivered , for the first time in three decades , a normality for colombia ’s cities , and , increasingly , peace , and rule of law to much of its vast jungles , india ’s relentlessness has brought on waves of defections from the farc , which is now down to nearly $ 44,000 in july 2001 . likewise , the hostage rescue mission has forced chávez , still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum last year ( a moment in which chávez ’s own high command supposedly refused his demand to fudge the outcome ) onto a defensive path . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left polo alternativo democratico .
yet the reality remains that an important share of the world ’s roughly 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – will attend their school-age years , without ever setting foot in a school at all . globally , 35 conflict zones are currently being denied both education and the prospect of future jobs . yet , with an estimated $ 40 billion of annual financing gap on both primary and secondary education alone , there is also strong evidence that we need a new approach . clearly , the benefits of international aid from education will need to grow more slowly . beyond mobilizing private sources of finance , we must make the already available aid ( sdg $ 13 trillion this year this year this year ) go a lot further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own investment in education .
because they are not yet strongly capitalized , modest losses from outright default and indirect losses by business companies in greece can jeopardize bank equity , causing bankers to back down to lending . but the risks have not been removed , either . the margin for error for major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are not yet strongly capitalized , modest losses from outright default and indirect losses by business companies in greece can jeopardize bank equity , causing bankers to back down on lending . and , indeed , a substantial share of greece ’s government debt has migrated from the banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund .
it would have been useful , for example , for programs to monitor how many high-bloodletting and place people had been diagnosed and targeted therapy , what proportion of those on the treatment had achieved blood-curdling control , and the need to reduce premature deaths by the desired goal . finally , aids efforts had been expanded , owing to powerful advocacy and cooperative efforts , in conjunction with intense advocacy efforts , policymakers and providers were able to secure market efficiencies . as a result , such efforts reduced the costs of annual hiv therapies from just over $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to below $ 100 in 2016 . the resulting economies of scale enabled suppliers to shift from low size , high-edge solutions to high size , low profit models . by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and encouraging competition , in conjunction with intense advocacy efforts , policymakers and providers were able to secure market-efficiencies .
in its bilateral trade deals , however , the us demands what it becomes known as “ trips plus ” that would augment intellectual-property rights further , ensuring that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs epidemics during and other contingencies . in fact , the bilateral agreement forms the foundation of enhanced ties to friendship among countries . just before the last year ’s trade talks in cancún , the us has made some concessions , to say that it is no longer the holdout single person . the global consensus , reflected in the un commission ’s report , calls for more exceptions , to say that drugs can be made available in any case . to those confronting the prospect of dying , what matters are access to life-saving drugs , rather than whether what kill a person is an integral part of an epidemic .
and , if its exports grow more rapidly , they can let the renminbi rise . meanwhile , the pace of export-led growth will not change dramatically . meanwhile , chinese gdp growth will not change any time soon . without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export-driven growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating . as a result , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly .
when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , debates with nongovernmental counterparts about country or political work were discouraged . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national issues that now pervade its policy agenda . specifically , the fund would need to supplement its traditional core constituency for governments and other multilateral institutions ( notably the world bank ) with systemically influential subnational and private counterparts . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a wide-ranging set of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral part of an effective country ’s agenda and agenda , as is vital to the fund ’s “ close surveillance ” function under its articles of agreement . the situation today is very different .
and , thanks to the un ’s children under the fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from assault , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . manila zerrougui , the special representative for the un ’s child and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of school children from schools a “ trigger violation ” for the naming of terrorist organizations at the un secretary general ’s annual report to the un security council . this has meant funding for school attendants , fortifications , and surveillance facilities to placate parents and pupils that anything can be done to ensure that their school is safe to attend . as soon as we have been slow to react , the world is acting now . thirty countries recently signed on to lucens or safe school guidelines to instruct their military bodies to keep schools from operating as instruments of war .
because fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more domestic-demand growth – via delayed fiscal austerity in germany . but the two largest policy players in the eurozone , the european central bank , and germany , want no part of that agenda , hoping that one-quarter of all good gdp data makes a trend . the rest of europe is in barely shape than the periphery : bond vigilantes may not have woken up in france ; but the economic performance there has been anemic at best – driven largely by the mini housing boom . this is why greece is insolvent and the coercive restructuring of its sovereign debt is unavoidable . it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why even italy , which is stuck at relatively sounder fiscal footing , has flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform can not be complacent .
le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial , if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and tackle the country ’s problems . europe was thought to be the solution to the french political class . jospin and chirac did nothing to implement a grand program of liberalization ( including energy , financial services , and transportation ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , implying that the benefits of liberalization are being denied france at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all sorts of constraints on the french way to do business . yet both europe and europe could be increasingly catalysts of public resentment . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( l’exception france ) , and to begin serious reforms that involve french voters .
the modern version of that explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security and , indeed , national identity are under threat . modern economic growth still depends on almost every advanced industrial country on imported power ( norway is the exception ) . certainly , there has been a great deal of this kind of sentiment in the 1930 ’s , when a populist response to the great depression attributed it to the sinister forces of international capital flight . people in places like france and poland , who worry about national decline , are looking to blame somebody outside a country . an alternative scenario suggests that such fears emanate from a very real problem .
his other name , abu mazen , is not his revolutionary name , but reflects the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s own political corruption and micro-management , abbas lost whatever chance he needed to retain the loyalty of fatah ’s leadership , the newly designated pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . an attempt at the primary to elect fatah ’s candidates backfired , owing to fraud and the losers ’ refusal to honor the results . abbas ’s son , mazen , ran the country ’s local advertising agency . calling for national elections , while politically correct , was political suicide , because it lacked any vision for a possible outcome , and did very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline .
new york – for the last four decades , the ledra street in the heart of nicosia was a symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , just two years ago this april , a wall that partitioned capital to northward and southward northward opened . it was a window on what the future could bring . new york city , for its part , for four decades the ledra street in the heart of nicosia , was a symbol of a divided cyprus . slowly , those not mingled over the last 44 years began to renew their ties and rediscover one another .
for example , momentum could expand southward and spur asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , to join the tpp . moreover , creating a china-japan-south korean fta with the us would most likely trigger a chain-out reaction . such a turn of events would coincide with the establishment of the east asian free trade area ( asean ) , which asean ’s +3 envisioned more than a decade ago . should that happen , other countries , – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – may seek to jump on the bandwagon . but if the proposals discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in its level of integration and importance to the global economy .
while this extra cost may be borne by the rich world ’s health-care systems , it is excessive relative to poor countries , implying neither , nor inadequate , cure . compare this with the antibiotic treatments of , say , urogenital infection , which lasts just a couple of weeks in most places . while treating mdr-tb may remain arduous , doing so is excessive relative to the treatment age of roughly two years , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as canonical drugs – and , at a cost , a factor that rises to $ 10-100 per year . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli , who are mdr . as a result , compliance with tb treatment is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant approaches ( mdr ) tb that can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes .
of course , market forces play a role as well , too , but markets shape politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign-finance system and its revolving door between governments and industry , politics is being shaped by the money . in a country with some money trumps democracy , such legislation has become predictably frequent . yet rising inequality is not inevitable , either . for example , the us bankruptcy law , which privileges derivatives over everyone else , but does not permit discharging student debt , regardless of the inadequacy of education provided , enriches bankers , and impoverishes many at the bottom . there are market economies that do better in terms of both gdp growth and rising living standards for most citizens .
on the other hand , former us secretary of state and democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton and prominent republican contender donald trump have opposed social-welfare and medicare reform . us senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton , is actually proposing to expand the trump administration ’s unfunded liabilities . either way , america would confront growth-constraining tax increases and limits on contributions that public investment can make to the country ’s future . a progressive redistributive agenda might continue to advance , or a conservative entitlement-reform agenda might fail . with so few us presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces major risks .
this is precisely what the austrian conservative party ’s party , under wolfgang schuessel , has not done . confronted with the election result of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they have made a faustian pact with haider . but , in all of these countries , the political discourse among all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled from its own party local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s incumbents . the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – – – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was n’t appealing to schuessel ’s party ( for one , it wo n’t be chancellor in such a grand coalition ) .
the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . a direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion shortfall implied by tax reform would be to raise that to 97 % . but even a massive expenditure program , such as the $ 900 billion american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 , would add only an extra three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . it is hard to be optimistic that an 97 % debt-to-gdp ratio would make it harder to achieve than the 92 % debt-to-gdp ratio .
and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , saying that the world will hold up those acting in order to thwart the democratic process , as well as the will of voters accountable for their actions . at the same time , the african union has responded promptly . west african states ’ economic community ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp ” the popular will of côte d’ivoire , and appeals to all stakeholders to accept the results declared by an electoral commission . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan called on all parties to “ respect and fully implement ” the ivorian verdict as stated by an independent electoral commission . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan called on all parties to “ respect and fully implement ” ivorian peoples ’ verdict as proclaimed by an independent electoral commission .
china ’s leaders demonstrated their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the transnational political and economic system . but , if america is no longer willing to take the lead ? america ’s vacillating policy toward syria certainly suggests this . indeed , the sour legacy of its invasions in iraq and afghanistan , followed by the financial crisis of 2008 , made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even as the “ red lines ” crossed out , but also ostensibly reluctant to shoulder any serious burden to sustain its global leadership position . seoul – which has the world – entered a new era of chaos ?
but it would not have worked without the critical role that competition played . our research indicates that industrial policy was a success in promoting brazil ’s competitive bioethanol industries . a massive stimulus package spurred by the 1970s oil-price surge gave way to completely new industries . ethanol account for over 50 % of the country ’s current light-vehicle fuel demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s ’s energy giant , and one of latin america ’s largest companies – expects that share to rise to just over 80 % by 2020 . brazil sought to become energy self-sufficient in ways similar to its modern efforts .
“ the child ’s creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” “ states one ilo report , ” “ and its entire mental world is impoverished . ” the ilo contends that children suffer enormously when they are forced to perform as “ small adults . ” the sad reality is that families are often just the latest to protest exploitation of their children . india ’s fathers still pay off debts sometimes by committing their children to bonded labor . india ’s fathers still pay off debts sometimes by committing their children to bonded labor .
asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities into the us . owing to bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures , which have contributed to the budget deficits of $ 500 billion a year , america will need to raise taxes and limit budget expenditures , whether or not bush is reelected . but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s capacity to project power – for both good or ill – will decline in the future for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . asia ’s central banks have purchased hundreds of billions of dollars of us dollar reserves of american securities , compared to the us . with bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures contributing as much as $ 500 billion a year to annual us budget deficits , america will need to raise taxes and limit budget expenditures , whether or not bush is reelected .
to be sure , there have long been political efforts to undermine or replace the us dollar as the dominant global reserve currency . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce an era of “ gold dinar ” as an answer to the us-soviet currency system . russian theorists of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional “ iconography ” as an answer to the us-soviet currency system . to be sure , there have been a long history of political effort to undermine or replace the us dollar as the dominant global reserve currency . so far , no globally devastating monetary attack outside the cinematic realm has occurred .
of course , a single short seller can not “ “ “ make ” ” ” ” ” the asset pricing ( unless he or she is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . if the attacks persists , speculators may push the government into default on its sovereign debt unless it can find ways to fund its borrowing more cheaply . but , if a bunch of speculators are deciding ( rightly or wrongly ) that a us government is an overpriced debt , they can force down the price of forcing its yield ( the interest rate that the us government must pay ) . voilà – the successful “ short time ” of doing business – is a success . my gain for correctly embracing this bearish view is therefore € 1.65 ( $ 9.1 m ) , € 9.1 m that i got through bond sale on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 interest that i had to pay to goldman sachs for a six-month loan .
clearly , doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from stimulus tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks . to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports to the us , the us government and the central bank can compensate for the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . clearly , the chinese economic slowdown earlier this year was due almost entirely to the deliberate choices to deleverage in the banking system , cutting off local governments ’ borrowing , reducing over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed . clearly , doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks .
this was the age of village blacksmith , weaver , potter , and cobbler . in the eighteenth century , shipping technology had improved enough to enable the emergence of global supply chains . the finished cloth was then exported to the outside world . african slaves were used to grow cotton in the south united states , then shipped off to english mills . this was the age of village blacksmith , weaver , holland , and cobbler .
i do not know what “ the progressive direction of the advanced culture ” is , but the advanced culture played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out the poisonous weeds campaign , ” “ anti-rightist movements , ” or “ eliminating the demons and malevolent campaign . ” such obscurantism only creates a culture of tenacious uniformity . it need not be “ represented at all . ” like the grass ’s blade beneath a stone , culture knows how and where direction to look for light . is “ always represented ” by the lone political party ?
other leaders , from the gambia ’s president yoweri jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , have spoken out the same vein . in 2006 , afghan president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do just that . indeed , homophobia ’s price for gays in many african countries has been painfully obvious : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice . these official attitudes have created significant suffering for africa ’s gay districts and lesbos . in 2006 , afghan president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do just that .
perhaps more important , they have insufficient voice at the imf , the international monetary fund , and the adb , among other things . that underscores the key concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . china ’s ’s ’s ’s explanation of its push to establish the aiib is that developed countries have insufficient capital access to infrastructure . still , it seems that china , at about 30 % , will still be the largest among the 57 participating countries , which could effectively surrender a near-veto over the aiib ’s decisions . will it turn out to be the people ’s bank of china , the imf , and china to pursue a multilateral agenda in how the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the african development bank ( afdb ) ?
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , in particular , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , in recent times , governments have tended to understate the adverse growth effects of fiscal consolidation . that is a huge gap , but it is also perplexing finding : how can there be so much uncertainty ? at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , most recently , governments have tended to understate the adverse growth effects of fiscal consolidation . contrary to what such forecasting disparities may indicate , economists are indeed aware of the consequences of us fiscal policy , at least significantly than they have been used to know . they have typically projected that the us dollar ’s cuts in public spending would reduce gdp by about 50 cents in the short run ; by blanchard , the true result is a decline of the $ 0.90-1.70 ratio .
worse still , there have been proposals for their actual use . for far too long , urban dwellers have been used as pawns on the global nuclear chessboard , with little concern about the full implications of playing the playing field . military planners , who account for the use of nuclear weapons , probably have given scant thought to those living in us cities on their destination lists . but , because the general public is literate about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , that attitude will become increasingly difficult to sustain . at the same time , people worldwide must cease to regard one another as untrustworthy enemies .
moreover , right-wing populist parties exploited rising public frustration with the eu itself . and the massive prosperity gap between the “ old ” and the “ new ” eu member states continues to set out in determining the voting patterns . at the same time , the influence of the widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ affluent ” north ” and the stumbling “ southern , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with france at its center ( but headed south ) , has been apparent . these groups have managed to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given the fact that most europeans are unconvinced that the worst is coming to an end . many europeans oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” ” ” ” ” ” the mantra of eu traditionalists in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats .
none , this is far rarer and costlier : it is pulverized in the white rhine horn . today , the international union for preserving nature estimates that just 25,000 of them still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with its handful in namibia and kenya . not a gold powder , as the lesser moguls might have been offering , or even purest cocaine . they raise their glasses , fill the finest scotch . just a half-century ago , white rhinos abated in africa .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s ’s ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent for our security , because it is evident in the current struggle to defeat isis . the world needs to unite behind a holistic drive to discredit an ideology that gives extremists their grip on power , and rebuild hopes and dignity to those whom they would recruit . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is now assembling , and with which the uae actively supports . if we are to prevent isis from learning that lesson from the hard way , we need to acknowledge that we can not put off the fires of fanaticism by force alone .
this year ’s nobel prize in economics traveled to george akerlof of the university of california at the berkeley school of economics , michael spence of stanford university and myself for our work on the `` asymmetry of information . '' for two hundred years , economists were using simple economic models that assumed that information is perfect – i.e. , that all participants had an equal and transparent understanding of relevant factors . we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small information imperfections can have a profound effect on how an economy behaved . what , then , is this work about , and why has we committed ourselves to doing so ? we have shown that this notion is ill-founded : even small information imperfections can have profound effects on how the economy behaved .
the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( of greed ) has not led to the well-being of their societies ; it has not even served their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did not serve homeowners , who lose out on their homes , workers losing their jobs , pensioners who saw their retirement funds vanish , or taxpayers paying hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . under the threat of a system-wide meltdown , the safety net – intended to help the haphazardly individuals to meet lifecycencies – expanded generously to commercial banks , then to the investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even the car-loan firm , even the car-loan firm . never have so much money been transferred from so many to so few . we are used to think of government transferring money out of good .
above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – which are divided between inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . this approach would adhere to the principle that us president barack obama emphasized when announcing the latest round of us sanctions against russia last month , that ukraine must be permitted to “ chart its own path . ” what matters is that the us constitution will require a super-majority , rather than , say , an easily reversible “ no-bloc ” resolution , which ukraine ’s parliament , adopted in 2010 , should be permitted to join in a military alliance . the practical outcome , – ukraine remaining unaligned in its military and security terms – would reflect the will of ukraine as a whole . to be sure , ukraine would help ukraine ’s people – – – – – – with the cultural , demography , and the economic shifts that are creating the consensus needed to abandon neutrality .
political elites -- both at home and abroad -- will need to shift public attention to the looming fiscal crisis . in any viable long-term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , the retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and the eligibility for special pensions ( the disability rate , especially ) should be tightened to cover only the truly right in need . in the years ahead , the most important fiscal task facing eastern europe and the nis government will be to reduce the size of social expenditure to an even more reasonable fraction of gdp . in institutional terms , long-standing reform should aim for a shift to the pay-as-you-go pension system based on individual savings accounts , as occurred in chile , against the status quo , pay-as-you-go retirement systems . the public should understand the critical gap between the one-time transfer of the old workers in the early stages of market-oriented reform and the long run pension policies .
but that may well follow a second phase in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration starts to compensate for the one-time structural effects of new technologies . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainties regarding the timing of that scenario . focusing far too heavily on a cyclical pattern , rather than a structural one might entail serious risks for future economic well-being and financial stability . but , either way , policymakers in the advanced economies need to recognize that their inflationary outlook is subject to a broader set of dynamic possibilities than previously thought . and , on the third front , potentially onset of higher inflation can catch policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive shocks that make bad situations worse .
the same goes for implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy resources to keep global temperatures above 2º fahrenheit above 2º fahrenheit by the united nations . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equitably into every part of the un agenda , and not only in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ’s ’s ” issues . groups would operate according to a shared mandate of peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism must be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-empowered institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be established in a field to crack down on departmental barriers and confront reasonable challenges . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be established in a field to crack down on departmental bottlenecks and confront reasonable challenges .
with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in its most recent 2011 survey , india is home to some of the planet ’s largest absolute number of poor people . every year , each is on average of 38 cents below the extreme line of poverty . in the drc , 77 % of the world ’s population is extraordinarily poor , and is falling short of the poverty line , on average . for india , the costs adds up to nearly $ 11 trillion worth of exchange-rate dollars . the most expensive middle-income countries to lift themselves out of poverty would be the democratic republic of the congo and nigeria republic .
in recent decades , however , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become more pro-cyclical , largely exacerbating volatility in international financial markets and commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustments tends to encourage short-termism toward economic policymaking , limiting long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . indeed , when oda is not determined by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it promotes investment in infrastructure and human development . at the same time , pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage short-termism toward economic policymaking , which limits long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than creating markets and guaranteeing property rights .
but now the demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or falling . the “ white lady ” is seducing a steadily rising number of europeans , and leaving in a state of denial will only worsen the consequences . cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to the point that the united states began a major campaign against the sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in its inner cities , drug traffickers , and andes suppliers . the “ white lady ” seducing a steady growing number of europeans , and leaving in a state of denial , will only worsen the consequences . coca cultivation has been more than one-quarter for the last five years , with cocaine seizures nearly double .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was first elected president of the united states , and america ’s democratic institutions are clearly under stress . yet both state and local governments remain trusted by a majority of voters and have the power under the tenth amendment of the american constitution to bolster their democratic institutions . among congressional republicans , particularly the “ take-no-prisoners ” ” of extremism undermines the federal government ’s capacity to act , which is precisely what many on the far right want . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in the us congress has fallen to less than 9 % . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the us federal government to “ do the right thing , ” ” while congressional trust has fallen to less than 9 % .
by treating lukashenka as an favored business partner simultaneously that the eu seeks to insulate it as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s military forces , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr have been ordering uniforms from the state-owned factories of the danube in the town of dunsky , named after the father of the red terror and the soviet kgb ’s founder , feliks dunsky . the european parliament has steadfastly denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet the eu ’s member governments continue to do business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound in france . this is particularly true when there is any chance of a rescue or making money .
at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) of € 1.3 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) of long-term refinancing operation , pulling the european banking system back from the brink . bond yields in southern europe soared , and a pervasive feeling of apprehension and fear cloaked governments in european capitals . but , in fact , political leadership has been sorely lacking . at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) of long-term refinancing operation , which has pulled the european banking system back from the brink . finally , in december , decisive action was taken .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado – the stock exchange ’s ’s special voluntary listing segment – that provides strong protections for investors in the newly listed firms – supports this view . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their rules . the novo mercado has dealt with this problem by subjecting the disputes involving its newly-listed firms to arbitration . but stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil . their only recourse is to put pressure on recalcitrant firms to leave the exchange .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . new york city – january is traditionally just a time of estimates to assess developments over the past year – to anticipate what the new one holds in store . new york city – january is traditionally just a time of assessing the developments of the past year to anticipate what the new one holds in store . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
and the conversion of comprehensive universities into the specialized science and technology institutes of science and technology in the former soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert an economic disaster in those economies . yet , again , that scenario is highly unlikely , at least in the foreseeable future . to be sure , in theory , the simultaneous shift in a few countries toward stem-focused secondary - and upper-income countries – with big concomitant productivity gains – could diminish the competitiveness of an economy that has made no such efforts . yet , once again , that contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another . indeed , the proliferation of highly specialized european universities has failed to buttress economic growth or employment .
first , all arose from a profound crisis of the social-welfare state : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , low inflation , and devaluation . without a deep crisis , none of the major reform was likely to have been achieved . second , a change of government via elections has prompted reform , giving them democratic legitimacy . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is so often argued . third , reform requires a powerful leader .
but , rather than deploy their plentiful cash in new investment to expand capacity and tap new markets , they have been very hesitant since the global financial crisis erupted – for many companies – preferred so far ( or pressured by activist investors ) to surrender it to their shareholders . moreover , because companies greatly improved their operating efficiency and lengthening their debt maturities , they need too much less precautionary savings than they did in the past . yet one looks at it , the corporate sector in advanced economies in general , and especially in america is as robust today as it has been in many years . nonfinancial firms have achieved a mix of resilience and agility that contrasts sharply with the prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide that have yet to confront reasonably well a legacy of over-leverage . indeed , with profitability at or near record lows , cash-holdings by the corporate sector in the united states have piled more than one-quarter after quarter , reaching all-time highs and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates today .
the same is true for turkey , with its robust banking sector , its thriving domestic market , growing prominence in the middle east , a relatively stable democratic polity , and an economy that was a spectacular perstar in asia , despite a worldwide recession . from an american perspective , indonesia represents an attractive alternative to russia , which recently vied with venezuela for the leadership of a “ america in the decline ” ” ” ” of the cheering partition . moreover , indonesia has shown resilience not only economically , but as a nation as a whole . perhaps the most compelling case for all is that indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with its burgeoning middle class , a relatively stable democratic polity , and an economy that was perstar perstar performer in asia despite a worldwide recession . purely from standpoint with the economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far more powerful for south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose primary responsibilities are the dangers that the regime of its evil twin to the north will crumble and inundates it with starving refugees .
the bottom line is that the values matter in international relations , with states that place a high emphasis on promoting values are exceedingly vulnerable to accusations of hypocrisy . a good example is an allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five can exercise the security council ’s veto , but also because of its inherent military strength . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever prove legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , the test of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering , and waging war against any of the major powers to protect a suffering minority would almost certainly trigger a much broader conflagration . the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place a high emphasis on promoting values are exceedingly vulnerable to accusations of hypocrisy . and , worst of all , are perceived as being soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , commit mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens .
already , the country ’s worsening record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-free access to the european union market , provided through the bloc ’s “ anything but arms ” trading regime . yet that appears to be precisely what hun sen ’s administration plans to do . sachs ’s recent denials that any company operating there have been have reinforces the suspicion that hun sen administration will continue to turn a blind eye to eye on it . the last thing cambodia needs , too , is the risk of an economic reprisal to help chinese firms dodge american tariffs . that may be good news for a corrupt few ; but it is bad news for cambodia .
to break free from economic stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . more than 200 million people are jobless , and more than half of them are jobless . the global economy is at risk of becoming stuck in the midst of a “ new mediocre ” period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . more than 200 million of the world ’s people are jobless , and more than half of them are jobless . if the measures that the g20 leaders assembled in november are realized , they will lift world gdp to just over 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income .
it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between the “ “ “ out of ” area operations ” and nato members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . what type of relations should nato have with its partners ? albright ’s message seeks to address these questions in a more balanced manner . it is to this point further rightly that nato ’s strategic political and military objectives could be brought together with russia through greater stability , reciprocal transparency , predictability , and arms reduction , validating the non-proliferation and arms-control treaties . it is to this further simultaneous transformation and enlargement ?
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been smart and delusional . north koreans have violated their agreements , knowing full well that china , a country with some of its greatest potential leverage , is most concerned about the regime ’s collapse in north korea and , therefore , the threat of chaos across its borders . japan fears that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence will erode if an american decreases its nuclear forces to parity with china . but it is a mistake to believe that extended deterrence depends on parity with the figures of nuclear weapons . one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been smart and delusional .
berkeley – back in the late 1990s , in america , at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , repealing the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and use of derivatives contracts . the first school of thought broadly held by the united states ’ republican people ’s party ( congress ) was that financial regulation was bad , because all regulation was bad . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why did n’t it then ? the second , broadly that of the democratic party itself , was rather complicated and based on four observations : · in the industrial core of the global economy , at least it then had more than 60 years since financial disruptions had more than a minor effect on overall gdp and employment levels .
of course , concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to liberals , but this should not alienate moderate voters either because more equality is a good thing for the economy . it is grotesque that so many people who are facing gains from such “ socialist ” policies remain convinced to vote against them , because they are supposedly “ un-american ” ” ” ” ” ” . the democrats ’ core message over the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , all others are losing out . and it may even persuade some of the angry , poor trump supporters to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not about helping the left-behind folks in the rust belt and the rural hinterland . the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , all others loses .
but iranians have reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford a full-scale war , and a us oil-price spike that would result from it . likewise , trump thought he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions on the rest of the party . as the clock ticks down , the wrong outcome becomes all the more likely . yet , without an agreement by the end of the year , a clash becomes likely . likewise , trump thought that he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions .
political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and a lack of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful , more democratic transition . moreover , scaf has weigh carefully on politicians and disenfranchised their relative weakness , curtailed capacity , infamous opportunism , and general inconsistency . yet the scaf now appears to have realized that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attacks by rivals . in the past two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community has signaled a clear turn toward change : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from the us , not the us . ” as a result , a growing belief within scaf has become both redundant and insufficiently .
higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and further weakening economic growth . by the end of the decade , america will need to pay an equal amount equal to more than one-third of personal-income income income tax revenues simply to pay an interest on national debt . that requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and making foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . foreign investors now account for more than half of all this debt , which is the most important indicator of us dollars . paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than americans receive from the rest of the world .
if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it will need to come to terms with a regime discredited by electoral fraud , but still indispensable to resolving nearly all of the middle east ’s great problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflict in afghanistan , pakistan , iraq , lebanon , and palestine . iran is also a key player in cooling hot spots in the caucasus and central asia . indeed , aside from domestic foreign-policy matters and issues concerning the domestic liberty , the choice among the major candidates hinges on whether iran should seek greater international integration . an opening policy would therefore quickly place the regime at risk . ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness .
since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well below 1.5 % , and total factor productivity has stagnated or declined . but where it counts – in terms of total factor productivity and economic growth – the story is one of profound disappointment . perhaps the most visible gains have been going on the external front , but the most visible gains have come into play . exports have jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and gdp shares of inward foreign direct investment have tripled . perhaps the most visible gains have been on the external front .
a fundamental problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade continually evolving , with existing agreements having only limited adjustment capacity . services such as education , banking , accounting , and insurance accounts for an ever-larger share of global output ( now around two-thirds ) , and a further expansion requires major changes in existing agreements . and a bilateral or regional trading deal can chip away at certain barriers within the existing global system . a fundamental problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade continues to evolve , with existing agreements having only limited adjustment capacity . after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system .
for many years , researchers had come to think that these signals had traveled along just a few well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brain called thalamus . from there , researchers believed , signals have gone to the portion of the cerebral cortex that manages the body consciousness , and somehow the cortex has turned them into a conscious experience . a contemporary non-medical writer has described the properties of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness , the ability to annihilate complex thoughts and other sensations , the ability to destroy language , and intense opposition to objectification . she reminds physicians that for a person suffers from intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else constitutes a potent negative emotion . from there , researchers have come to believe , signals have gone to the portion of the cerebral cortex that has administered body consciousness , and somehow to turn a cortex into a conscious experience .
according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal school of economics , this was the key event that set in motion the developments that ultimately enshrine free movement of capital movements as the global norm . it then came the turn of an organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal school of economics , this was the key event that set in motion the developments that ultimately enshrine the free movement of capital movements as the global norm . according to the harvard business school of rawi abdelal in 1983 , france ’s socialists carried out the abrupt volte-face and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale . when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his agenda in 1983 , france ’s socialists carried out a abrupt volte-face , and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale .
de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – aided , one , too – must be said by fumbling for the rebels , establishing primacy in the nation . the defeat of a military revolt was the first time that paris ’s republican authority was asserted over the pieds noirs to help bring down the fourth republic . the following day , de gaulle ’s face was being drawn , but he was resolute and full of power . within the 15 minutes of the generator ’s face fading from the screen , the 40 army units in algeria announced their loyalty . men at the barricades were persuaded to leave their own opposition stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaped to spain .
did israelis really want a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potential collapse of peaceful politics in the west bank , and now the right of a recognized palestinian state to take israel into an international criminal court for war crimes ? israel appears to be making the same mistake . it has been proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilians does not violate their morale and turn them against their own leaders , however appalling the regime . palestine ’s diplomatic promotion offered it a lifeline . if it does , why are so ham-fisted ?
the un ’s increasing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy above the global fight against terrorism , helping to placate many countries that this represents true international efforts , rather than just america ’s act itself . fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded rapidly on the ground ; it has resulted in a diplomatic breakthrough just as much . the growing role of international institutions under the un umbrella gives the seal of international law and diplomacy over a global struggle against terrorism , helping to placate many countries that this represents a true international effort , not only america acting on its own . the un will play the central role of rebuilding the work government in that country and in coordinating humanitarian assistance to the afghan people . while these seem to be grab-bag of accomplishments , they emphasize the single message : the world community is discovering new ways to cooperate even against a backdrop of terrorism and a global recession .
except for barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in a global electoral marketplace that differs very much from what is usually called “ neo-liberalism ” or the washington consensus . here , brazil is no different from the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . here , brazil is no different from the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , there is a direct correlation between the multiple projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with its nuances ) that may raise voters ’ emotions . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming elections this year are like a soccer match between the big team , where supporters of one candidate and another are distinguished solely by the colors of their shirts , as the strongest teams embrace the game ’s rules , and even tactics like them .
because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations , freelancers , and audiences alike , such organizations should report on the topic . but the most important changes must come from within the media industry itself . the violence against journalists has historically been an issue left behind by headlines . if journalists are using their platforms to inform the world of the perils that they face and their peers face , the world will need to listen . with attacks from online news organizations rising , the old attitude , prideful silence , no longer makes sense .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders reached the millennium development goal of halving the proportion of the world ’s poor to one-half of its 1990 level , five years ahead of schedule . yet rising unemployment and falling incomes underscore the enduring threat of poverty worldwide . after all , poverty is not an unmodified attribute of a rigid group ; it is a condition that poses a threat to billions of vulnerable people . yet the world bank , with its poverty line of $ 1.25 a day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) – which is used in measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal – is not the only relevant threshold . despite their deficiencies , there is a useful way to gain a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide .
while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unaddressed : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; persistently high and rising public-debt levels ; a loss of competitiveness and a slow decline in unit labor costs ( which a strong europe does not help ) ; and extraordinarily tight credit rationing , owing to the banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will be implemented too slowly . the 2014 outlook is dampened with longer-term constraints , just as it does . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effect on productivity growth in years on human and physical capital . and the abundance of policy - and regulatory uncertainties will keep private-sector investment spending in check .
the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy riches and the financing it needs to develop dwarfs that of the country ’s current financial woes . but those figures need to be laid into the eu ’s gloomy global energy image , something that ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do . yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is just € 23 trillion . but , in fact , those figures must be placed on the eu ’s gloomy global energy picture , something that ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy riches and the financing it needs to develop dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes .
syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for its country ’s woes . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline , rather than their country ’s profligacy . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happily oblige . thus , most tv channels speak of a bailout agreement just like tsipras ’s does : as the proximate cause of austerity is the product of the neoliberal dogma . new democracy and pasok do much the same thing , attacking the eu , “ “ speculators ” and hedge funds – anyone who may divert the public ’s attention from their own responsibility to the crisis .
lebanon is far too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see its local clients ease the burden on the “ “ lebanese front ” israelis in the face of their own grievances . but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match that of the region as a whole . israel ’s ’s shift in policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a powerful message to the american people that they should not miss the lebanese train just as well . nor is hezbollah keen to see israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s borders undermining its claims to the formidable , independent military force that it has built with iranian and syrian help . after all , it has been tiny qatar that has brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlement , egypt , which has mediated the gaza cease-fire , with turkey facilitating an israeli-syrian talks .
taken together , these factors suggest that the fed may remain in pause mode for the rest of the year 2019 . but , with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflation trends than on the official unemployment rate and its ramifications under traditional models . moreover , while fed staff members tend to believe that america ’s economy ’s gdp per capita is very low ( at about 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell ’s , seems open to the notion that trump ’s ’s ’s ’s qe tax cut and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovations , will enable somewhat stronger , non-inflationary growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making up for below-target inflation during periods of recessions and slow recoveries by allowing for above-target inflation during the expansionary period . and , though the review still has been in its early stages , the fed already appears to have embraced the notion that it should permit inflation to remain well below 2 % without immediately triggering a tightening .
for example , at fukushima , the bill will include the cost of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down a plant that produces reactors ; a protracted loss of economic output in a 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( an estimated $ 128.5 billion of roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the cost of replacing a 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . all of these hidden costs force the price of nuclear energy well above the price of shifting to renewable energy and improved energy efficiency . it is governments that , and therefore taxpayers and bondholders – that is , taxpayers and bondholders – that are financing the nuclear plants . moreover , supposed costs of nuclear-weapons costs never include a price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , decommissioning aging facilities , and emergency blackup , and impacted communities when disaster strikes occur again , at taxpayers ’ expense . at the top of this is the potential cost of health-care costs stemming from radioactivity .
otherwise , they would have been stifling discussion , too . the most important uphold principle is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone . but there is a need for clear engagement by clear rules . as a more pragmatic matter , it would also back , by giving trump ’s camp yet another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite ” around the world . this , in turn , would counter what universities are standing for .
there is some good news at this summit : european leaders at long last understood that the bootstrap operation , by which europe lends money to bank rescues of sovereigns , and with sovereigns to rescue the banks , will not work . it will survive for a little longer time to come . new york , like an inmate on the death row , europe has received yet another last-minute stay of execution . likewise , they now recognize that the bailout lending that gives a new lender of seniority over other lenders worsens the positions of private investors who will simply demand an even higher rate of interest rates . the markets celebrate because they have after each of the four prior “ european ” crisis ” summits – until they come to understand that fundamental problems still have been addressed .
munich – the german constitutional court delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ “ outright monetary transactions ” program . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has permitted the ecb to purchase , if necessary , unlimited volumes of troubled eurozone countries ’ sovereign bonds have provided the afflicted countries subscribe to the european rescue fund ’s rules , the european stability mechanism ( esm ) . but , rather than issuing the formal ruling that would constrain both the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it may have been doing , the court has asked the european court of justice for its opinion . munich – the german constitutional court – delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s governing council “ “ “ outright monetary transactions ” program . thousands of germans appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the eu treaty , which bars the monetary funding of eurozone governments and imposes substantial german citizens as taxpayers .
when investment is in upstream basic research , spillover effects across industries and sectors are sometimes sufficient socially rewarding . for example , some of the government ’s gains from investing in higher-risk innovations , perhaps taxpayers should be given a more direct return , by channeling profits into the public innovation fund to fund the next wave of technology . and the tax on capital gains has fallen by just over 50 % since the turn of the century . but other cases may require the emergence of alternative incentives . for example , some of the government ’s gains from investing in higher-risk innovations , perhaps taxpayers should be given more directly , by channeling profits into the public innovation fund to fund the next wave of technology .
still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone as a whole will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . clearly , with interest rates at the zero lower bound , more monetary/fiscal-policy coordination is an imperative . unless the ecb meets them , europe alone will be at risk . complicating matters further , until 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have the new president and leadership teams of its own , with the european parliament sitting on a new generation of politicians who have not sat in decades of compromises and reform . clearly , with interest rates at the zero lower bound , more monetary/fiscal-policy coordination is bound to be .
we should recall earlier accusations by the western powers of ’s covertly use of social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . indeed , these regimes began to wield social media for their own ends . facebook has estimated that russian content on its networks , including posts and paid ads , reached 126 million americans , about 40 % of the nation ’s population . in the case of the last few years , the vast majority of social media-permitted popular uprisings have failed to seek effective leadership , with traditional political and military organizations retaining the upper hand . all of us have heard accusations that russia has covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states .
ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , attempts to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful to this choice . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei , too , regrets permitting the basij militia ’s volunteers to launch attacks on the british consulate last november . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei as well as political support to win the presidency . yet he is not immune from miscalculation .
but it is not at all clear whether china ’s ’s ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interests . nor is it simply the developing and emerging countries necessary to rethink their attitude toward the world . the point , then , is not to be a single out of china . and it is not only the developing and emerging countries that need to rethink their approach to the world . similar questions are applied to india and brazil .
but , on the level of individual societies , i am confident that inequality loom as a serious political-economic problem . indeed , some people are working harder , applying their intelligence more skillfully , or simply having been fortunate enough in the right times at the right time . nor should we be concerned with much the fact that some people are wealthier than others . but , on the level of individual societies , i am confident that inequality does loom as a serious political-economic problem . the problems that can be addressed are those of poverty and social insurance — of the providing safety net — not inequality .
but the real danger is that powerful lobbies , working through congress members , are pushing back hard against the fcsoc and its mandate . there is also some friction among america ’s various regulators , and we certainly need more coordination across national borders , including with respect to europe . more broadly , however , her bottom line is that the us needs the fsoc to be able to do its job – to look for and evaluate all types of potential systemic risk – across national borders . that needs to be done as a technical matter , rather than as a component of the political process . not everyone in the sec is as rational as it is as stein .
the final factor driving iohannis ’s ’s victory has been its junior generation , in whom links with the western world have imbued an eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania . in bucharest , the celebration of the university of university of 1989 recalled the energies of 1989 ; it was the sound awakened electorate who had ruled romania ’s earlier flaws , and was ready for a fresh start . and , indeed , upon learning from his victory , iohannis promptly paid a visit to king michael i ( a hohenzollern prince until he renounced the title in 2011 ) . iohannis may also have benefited , to some degree , from an association in her minds with german hohenzollern kings , who have ruled romania wisely and the dedication of more than 80 years . when the results were reported , their euphoria became overwhelming .
education in the social sciences and the humanities is especially deficient , owing to the lack of investment in these disciplines and the excess political control of curricula . education in the social sciences and the humanities is especially deficient , owing to the lack of investment in these disciplines , as well as to the excessive force of political control of curricula . whereas tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate skills , the country ’s higher education system does abysmal work cultivating its talents . for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete and skewed toward a rote learning of theory at the expense of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills . as a result , a chinese undergraduate of colleges and universities has learned relatively little about the outside world in fields like science , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history .
such reforms will shape new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . finally , global economic conditions will compel an even greater restructuring in japan . such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve their consumer interests . finally , global economic conditions will compel an even greater restructuring of japan . japan , for its part , has committed to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . while the expansion in that century delivered growth , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) are leading the way in japan ’s productivity growth .
both countries combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job creation in manufacturing jobs ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursuing rapid , egalitarian development . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy , given its proximity to violence-prone algeria . nonetheless , it provides no short-term answers to terrorism on several grounds : it does not provide an ideology compelling enough to compete with fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in the world ’s moslem world . i am confident that the west can learn much about what to do by studying the policies that have been pursuing in the world ’s only two mid-development moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . the egalitarian development of this sort is the only viable answer to moslem global mal-development problems .
in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) , which excludes food and energy from rising just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) – which excludes food and energy – has gone just as far as it will go . halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) – which excludes food and energy – has gone just as far as it will go . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi essentially became unchanged , hold at just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level .
following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , however , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions have been reversed . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for more than 60 % of global gdp , on average , over the last 20 years . our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and west should also be rethought . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of india ’s democratic dialogue to the third-century bbc buddhist emperor ashanti . likewise , he contrasts the religious tolerance preached and practiced by muslim kaiser akbar hashemi in the 1590 ’s with the inquisition that hailed heretics in europe at around the same time .
yet that sequence is just the opposite of what one might expect : only after financial markets were developing had those with stakes in the us press in favor of better legislation protecting investors . britain and japan seem to have been following the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later , protective institutions . the core protective legal institution outside finance , the us federal securities act ( sec ) , did not come crashing down until the 1930 ’s – a decade after america ’s financial markets were growing up in order to fund america ’s economic rise . so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational had to go before financial markets started operating . britain and japan seem to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later .
in greece , on the other hand , the gap was mostly fiscal and used to support consumption , rather than investment . yet , until 2007 , greece spent more than 14 % of gdp , on average , on what it produces , the largest such a gap in europe , more than twice that of spain , and 55 % larger than ireland ’s . in spain and 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only spain . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used in terms of consumption , rather than investment . insufficient spending was never an issue at all .
well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making to quasi-independent entities , when issues at hand become technical and do not raise distributional concerns ; when the log-rolling would otherwise result from suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discounting of future costs . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this , and they should be required to make this happen . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians , and they need to provide account-accounting when they miss targets . true , high-quality democratic governance quality can sometimes be augmented by reducing the discretionary power of elected representatives . it may be up to elected politicians to identify an inflation target , but the means deployed to reach that goal are left to technocrats at the central bank .
while the central bank bears a good part of accountability , it needs support from other parts of the government , most notably from the finance ministry . that means large accountability by the fiscal authorities : target the structural fiscal surplus , which is high enough to generate the space needed for a depreciation of the real exchange rate . maintaining a competitive currency requires an increase in domestic saving relative to investment or reducing national expenditure relative to income levels . otherwise , competitive gains would offset the rise in inflation . first , it is important to recognize that a strong , overly volatile currency is not simply the central bank ’s problem to correct .
jolie has refused to treat her mastectomy as both scary or tragic , or as making her “ less of a woman ” ” in any sense . yet jolie ’s true importance is its context : a wave of women and men , in very different settings settings worldwide who are insisting on narration of their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer – have once been shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame . there is something of a narrative – a kind of sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts for her child ’s sake , with her husband remaining standing by her side – who is deeply reassuring toward women in western culture . jolie ’s rejection of her mastectomy is , however , that jolie ’s decision will change the roles available for her as an actress . one may be reasonably certain , but jolie ’s decision will nonetheless change the roles made available to her as actress .
it is this danger , which sets the practical and political limits of a flexible exchange rate . the private-sector ballooning of the financial sector would further weaken the financial sector , and the resulting strain on public-sector finances would compel austerity , thus constraining consumer demand and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . the large net of central-bank reserves may help to ease the process . in order to avert such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate must be administered – and , in a sense , that depends on a country in particular circumstances . some depreciation may be manageable in most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could be triggered if the domestic currency loses too fast .
but barr ’s cancellation of the show was almost certainly not a legal decision . in fact , the limits of free speech are not just a matter of law . in fact , entertainment companies or mass media are highly sensitive to public opinion . people tend to get fired on , for commercial reasons , if something they have said is deemed insulting to a huge number of people . in fact , free speech has become more firmly protected by law in the us than anywhere else in the world .
disturbing trends , such as the demographic youth bulge , have combined with high youth unemployment rates -- reaching close to 40 % in some places -- highlighting potentially explosive social conditions . in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced an arab human development report , written in the name of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social advancement . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions on key measures , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as economic and social progress . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions on key measures , including individual individual individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as economic and social advancement . none has a muslim majority , or any of them .
then came the end of the cold war , when all europeans adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . but , in view of the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their actual influence . in terms of security , europe remained dependent on the us . institutionally , this divide between labor was manifesting itself in nato and the eu . on the economic and technological front , however , europeans regained their sovereignty .
“ the jews ” were n’t his enemy any more , he said ; they even worked for him . “ the jews ” was n’t his enemy any more , he said ; they even worked for him . early on , he sponsored the unveiling of the bust by the assassinated israeli premier yezak rabin in brasov in transylvania . he announced that he had hired eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his presidential campaign . yet tudor did not stop with prolix apologies .
in kenya , for example , a prominent local paper reported on philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , receiving suspicious payment by the country ’s national youth service . yet those with power are well aware of how to fight back – and are not pulling their punches . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is being compromised , repressed , and even dismantled . further investigations into nevda have exposed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . and independent investigative journalists in africa have often been subjected to high-level corruption , abuses of power , and shady business deals .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds an increasingly entrepreneurial economy . but , because the government determines how to offload its massive stock holdings in an orderly fashion , it needs to ensure that such an effort is financed with equity rather than leverage , thereby enhancing the market balance and resilience . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( not the state ) to identify and encourage unicorns . china ’s ’s economy succeeded in trial and error , and the lessons of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process . but , because the government determines how to offload its massive stock holdings in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that such efforts are financed with equity rather than leverage , thereby enhancing the market balance and resilience .
strict adherence to the constitutional provision of any such eventuality is an imperative . here , the shortage of free media is particularly alarming , and does not bode well for a free and fair election . his abrupt departure because of illness may create a political vacuum that might become conducive to a grab of one form or another , like a military coup . it is crucial that the opposition can freely air its message and target the prospective voters – a point not lost on chávez ’s regime – as it attempts to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to voters . a recent globovision attack , venezuela ’s only survivor of an independent station , stands out in this regard .
during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked large , lumbering central banks like cash cows , long on their money , and short on their financial acumen . as a matter of course , traders failed to win every struggle . his fundamental strategy was the norm : bets against any central bank trying to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies . during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked big , lumbering central banks like cash cows , long on money , and brief on financial acumen . george soros once made $ 1 trillion of value from the bank of england in just one hour .
yet , contrary to expectations , household consumption growth has remained lackluster , and firms have not ramped up investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s per capita gdp has barely surpassed that attained by the end of last year , and much of the increase has been fueled by manufactured goods but not yet sold off . yet there is another issue : in their homes and occupations , the feeling of excitement about the future is absent , despite all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now characterizes them . the prevailing explanation – the brutally cold winter – is wearing so thin that everyone should see through it . american consumers remain scarred from the crisis , and the crisis is not yet clear .
to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to be realized annually in networked infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combined with heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . likewise , regulatory reform is needed to boost support startup firms – an area where germany is notoriously weak – reflected in the difficulty that such firms face when acquiring venture capital is concerned . whereas some of these funds will come from public-sector budgets , the overwhelming majority will need to provide the private sector . moreover , bringing germany into digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband internet , will require substantial investment , which an improved regulatory framework can help spur it . nowhere is the need to overcome funding bottlenecks more clearly than that of germany ’s energiewende ( an energy transition ) .
and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute for international economics argues that china actually surpassed the u.s. in ppp terms back in 2010 . yet a recent co-authored study by robert february , the economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership dates back to china in 2014 . the international monetary fund recently predicted that the magnitude of china 's economy will surpass the u.s. in purchasing-power-parity terms ( ppp ) by 2016 . the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of the us economy will overtake that of america in purchasing-power-parity terms ( ppp ) by 2016 . purchasing power parity measures a country 's per capita income , using a package of international prices applied to all economies .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensibility and vulnerability . the us may be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less power ; but oil is a fungible commodity , and america ’s economy will remain sensitive to the shocks of a sudden shift in world prices . but one should not make trump to conclusions about what is needed . a tariff on energy imports and exports is only incipient approximation of independence . in other words , revolutions in saudi arabia , or the blockade of the strait of hormuz , could still inflict harm on america and its us allies .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . amazon and indonesian rainforests are flocking , with climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods intensifying , with potentially dire consequences for entire populations . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . but this does not mean that the global economy is set for robust recoveries any time soon . the bottom may be near – possibly by the end of the year . that downturn is complicated : the economic crisis combined with the financial crisis of 2008 . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the robust measures taken to revive the global economy .
tackling the world ’s ’s ’s ’s environmental and ecological problems , and improving the lot of those left behind , will require public action , such as that i have oversaw my roles in the world bank , the un , and the brazilian government . in my own career , i saw firsthand the fact that a manufacturing-fueled growth fueled by entrepreneurship competition in the globalizing world may have done far more to combat poverty , hunger , and hiv/aids programs alone . but , when that competition is not conducted responsibly , the reverse can happen – and , in many cases , have . in seizing the opportunities for globalization , firms have too often been neglected by the developed-world workforce that they are leaving behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to exceptional deprivation . but , too , it will require the participation of entrepreneurship .
and , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum outcome , such an approach would have been necessitated by a new plebiscite trump remaining opposed to a no-deal brexit . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed out of british politics . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactic will spur his disparate opponents into overcoming their differences in order to stop a no-deal brexit . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed out of british politics . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactic will spur his disparate opponents into overcoming their differences in order to suspend a no-deal brexit .
in order to encourage such efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint un special envoy for the asean ocean , tasked with enhancing ocean governance , and ensuring that the full sdg 14 ’ potential is realized . the us has financed its devastation , with no regard for its consequences . it has been treated like a free-for-all of the trash and race-to-the-bottom buffet . it has been treated like a free-for-all garbage bin and race-to-the-bottom buffet . the ocean , for its part , has suffered from decades of abuse and neglect .
those groups were dealt with the body blow just two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s gdp from circulation overnight . those groups were dealt with the body blow just two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s ’s gdp from circulation overnight . the bjp government ’s greatest neglect to agriculture has been the country ’s smallholder - and peripheral farmers , as well as the landless farm workforce . daily wage workers , traditionally priced in cash , lost their jobs by a million , because the replacement currency did not print an adequate volume . when crops fail , many farmers and farm workers established low by crushing debt burdens ( often incurred at usurious rates by rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – just as more than 11,400 did in 2016 .
and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that task : the extinction rate . bird extinctions are our best window on humanity ’s ’s massive , irreversible environmental impact . for that reason , some colleagues and i computed the rates at which bird species become extinct in recent history , and the rate at which they are likely to become extinct in the future . bird extinctions are our best window on humanity ’s ’s ’s ’s massive , irreversible environmental impact . for each of the world ’s 10,000-bird species , there can be ten or perhaps even 100 other unknown species of animal , plant , or fungi .
today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity generation , according to mark mills , the ceo of digital power groups . and , at long last , perhaps most importantly , they enable their users to sense of patterns and opportunities that are impossible to discover through traditional means . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – as measured in terms of the number of computation per unit of energy on “ unstructured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than even the best man-made machines . with systems growing in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture appears to be reaching its limits as much as power consumption soars , and transmission lag among components becomes increasingly burdensome . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , the organ that still has much to teach us .
proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the perils of run banks in times of crisis . to address this risk disparity and move ahead with schedule , the balance sheets will have to be clean up before considering the next step . while this argument is true , critics emphasize the mismatch in risk , owing to the very high proportion of bad lending on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries . while the proportion of bad lending for banks in stable eurozone countries amounts to only about 2 % , the most recently published international monetary fund statistics from last april indicate a share of 11 % for spain , 16 % for spain , and 46 % for greece . munich – discussions are now underway to establish a common deposit insurance system for eurozone banks . while the share of bad lending for banks in stable eurozone countries amounts to only about 2 % , the most recently published international monetary fund statistics from last april demonstrate a combined share of 11 % for spain , 16 % for spain , and 46 % for spain .
it is hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to loosen her , or to the powers that want to exclude her from politics forever . this sets a dangerous precedent , because it creates a powerful incentive for him , the winner will take all , the loser will go to jail – for the ruthlessness . in 2000 , for example , the journalist olgiy gongadze was abducted and beheaded after publishing online news of high levels of government corruption . she is in jail , because she lost that power , too . in 2000 , for example , the journalist olgiy gongadze kidnapped and beheaded after publishing online reports of high-level government corruption .
undoubtedly , there is a strong case for making a universal , impartial application of values . and rising wealth in rich countries helps the poor by increasing the demand for their goods . this virtuous circle continues to see globalization ’s ’s ’s ’s enemies as being vicious , encouraging exploitation of the poor and vulnerable . this virtuous circle continues to see globalization ’s ’s ’s enemies as being in reality a vicious species , encouraging exploitation of the poor and vulnerable . there is no doubt that there is a strong case for making universal , impartial application of values .
that is why abe was the first foreign politician , after british prime minister theresa may , to rush to congratulate trump on his second term in office in 2017 . like italy , japan has been on its frontlines during the cold war , and it has also been hindered by american interference . in some important ways , japan has benefited immensely from being led by american unilateralism , and from the postwar us constitution , which is not only pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had earlier , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of speech . but the kind of democracy that americans remain proud of post-1945 installing have also been hindered by american interference . constitutionally unable to participate in military misadventure , with the exception of the highly politicized goods producer during america ’s diverse asian conflicts , japan , rather like countries in western europe , could concentrate on rebuilding its industrial power .
but much of the problem stems from the under-briefed , undereducated , uncurious , and uncurious news corps . nobel prize winners like edward prescott have no business discussing the benefits of tax cuts without pointing out that the tax cuts accompanying spending increases are not tax cuts at all , but rather a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . the economics profession suffers a part of the blame for this . aside from a small number of good stories in the us business press , it is hard to argue that anyone who read or listened to english-language media coverage of the campaign may have learned anything interesting or relevance to the question of whose economic policies are probably a better thing for america . all of this economic activity was magnified by tv , print , and internet journalists .
fayyad is the first palestinian leader not to emerge from fatah movements , and may therefore understand what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic mix of self-righteous ideology and violence . so far , they have failed abysmally in an institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . it may simply be that palestinians are on the brink of a new chapter in their history – and in israel ’s history and around the region as well . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of a majority of palestinians – yet since the un , the arab league , the former soviet union , the americas ) succeeded in delivering the statehood that a people can accomplish only through their own agency , what the zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation ” ( auto-emancipation ) . palestinian nationalism is profoundly ingrained in the consciousness of a majority of palestinians – yet since the 1948 arab league , which was proposed by the partitioning of british in two states , both jewish and arab , has failed to shift from an ideology toward reality .
in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded korea in order to establish a beachhead of state for invading china . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , was fighting alongside korea over the imperial japan . any diplomatic effort to denuclearize at north korea also must alleviate china ’s geostrategic concerns about the future of the korean peninsula . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi hideyoshi invaded koreans to establish a beachhead for invading china . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to stop japan from dominating korea .
according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) are likely to eliminate or change a huge but unpredictable number of human jobs . at the same time , embracing new technologies is widely viewed as a necessary component for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success . but it is the slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . the “ official ” narrative of technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) are likely to eliminate or change a huge but unpredictable number of human jobs .
yet the ultimate impact on science and technology depends on all three factors . first , development , sustain , and utilization of local capabilities and leadership . at the same time , each nation needs to develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists local employment opportunities . at the same time , each nation needs to develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists local employment opportunities . developing scientific and technological capacity is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it .
they need to be confronted with head-on , with the clean sweep of its management and an absolute overhaul of its governance structures . in this sense , fifa is not a special case : all not-for-profit and for-profit organizations worldwide are expected to adhere to that code of conduct . the code of conduct on the field , where we expect players to surrender all under clear rules that are swiftly enforced by an independent referees – that is , what we expect from the governing body in the field . fifa is just as complex as any large public-private or public agency ; how it is governed must reflect this . and it is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade .
the industry has faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often laying off large numbers of staff members , particularly in their foreign-bureaus . in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by a staggering 20 % since 2001 . as advertising revenues have been vacuously umed by internet giants facebook and google , newspaper earnings gains have plunged . in the west , young people have essentially dispensed with home-delivered physical morning newspapers , and instead are catching up on news whenever they elect , using tablets , laptops , or cellphone apps . even a few grand pages have either closed down or published only online .
during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge in any case much less during an era during a profound economic crisis . but things have yet to turn out : bosnian immigrants have fared about as much as swedes receiving them have , enriching our societies . in the new century , refugees have come increasingly from the middle east and the horn of africa . people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile in 1956 , chile following the coup of 1973 , and iran in the aftermath of the 1979 opec revolution . for several decades , swedish industries have become increasingly dependent on immigrant workers .
another study , by the boston consulting group , points out that many small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic , and the nordic countries – rank well above america in so-called “ e-intensity , ” which covers it with infrastructure , the internet approach , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities . one-third of these firms have acquired a tech company since early 2015 . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . transactions worth over $ 88 billion occurred last year , compared to just $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 , including a softbank purchase by the bank of british <UNK> tor-design , and the qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase by nayxp semiconductors . moreover , foreign firms have been rushing to seize on europe ’s tech talent .
after a decade of rule through a slogan , the chinese public wants substance . it rose to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp . so far , the public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . that presents xi with the very real challenge he faces . in fact , the china dream is no exception . it has risen to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp .
the combination of financial contagion from europe , already leading to a severe credit crunch , and a sudden surge in low-priced us imports from china leaves romney ’s administration in a bind . in america , us president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . in america , us president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for getting too soft on china ’s economic policies . demonstrations are beginning in major us cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials . china ’s government is determined that it can not risk further strife , announcing a package of measures to boost us economic growth and prevent layoff activity , including direct financial support for us exporters and intervening in currency markets to weaken the renminbi .
that power certainly explains why the 2010 dodd-frank financial reforms , enacted in 2010 , were not stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to an effective implementation of that legislation ( for example , there is currently an enormous fight over the “ “ volcker rule ” of thumb , in order to limit proprietary trading by megabanks ) . but the fact that mortgage lenders ’ criminal activity is just another matter , is not even clear about the lobbying power of the big financial players . nor does i honestly believe that the us administration ’s stance reflected any form of corruption – payments made to individuals , or even to policy campaigns . and , in that case , it does n’t even seem to reflect the lobbying power of the large financial players . why , then , would the us administration continue to bend over backward to become lenient toward the top bankers under these circumstances ?
like bosnia , syria appears to be hopelessly divided between warring factions , and the violence that appears to be unstoppable . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its defining features in syria today . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its defining features in syria today . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its defining features in syria today . in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia – including efforts , in its aftermath , to recognize the concepts of universal justice – has applications in contemporary world .
officially , the us pentagon does not direct the notion of a “ air-sea fighting zone ” against any particular country . given china ’s own history of vulnerability to us extraterritorial interventions , a unilateral us effort to retain an overwhelming offensive advantage would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . iran , for example , has run its current-account capabilities , as well as its far more hostile relationship with america , would warrant new american initiatives to deal with mounting us security vulnerabilities . some american strategists advocate a mostly technological solution to this dilemma . their approach , the notion known as the “ air-sea fighting struggle , ” implies a defensive mix and offensive instruments to deal with the new challenges posed by the trump administration ’s precision-strike weaponry .
should she assume an important part of this stage ? ms. watanabe provides a talent for seeing how the tide will be turned . ms. watanabe provides a talent for seeing how the tide is turned . her advice is to capture the chance at work and also find happiness in marriage and child marriage . or should she pursue happiness as a woman ?
a positive sign here is the european bank ’s recent decision of reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to fill the $ 215 million nuclear power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky to compensate for the chernobyl loss of generating capacity . though we can and will continue the fight against corruption , everything can not be done on its own . in return , ukraine will uphold its exit agreement : aside from the closing of chernobyl , the us will establish western nuclear-security standards and renew its cooperation with the imf through an extended fund facility program . at the same time , euroatom provides a help of a $ 585 million loan to fund repairs at ukraine ’s operating nuclear facilities . with the help of the us , international support for our efforts is crucial .
russians wanted to make a real difference , and curiously , they did so : their energies and cohesion put an end to the communist rule . russians wanted to make a difference , and they did so amazingly : their energies and cohesion imposed an end to communist rule . though there is nothing like soviet oppression , the alienation between the state and society is reminiscent of the soviet times that of the soviet times . of course , what russia did during the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy , but of revolutionary agitation . out of this sea of democratic emotion new political institutions was expected to emerge .
( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard as an island of “ stability . ” ) but some early lessons for international politics in the region , and for the west , in particular , foreign policy merit serious consideration . as is so often true in crises that become systemic , we know the phenomena , but have failed to grasp their interactions , partly because policymakers and analysts remain reluctant to anticipate ruptures : the familiar are held stable , even when problematic , they are known . berlin , for more than a year in the arab revolts , remains very much in doubt . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard as an island of “ stability . ” )
whereas china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its gdp and fixed-assets stand at some cn ¥ 90 trillion , which means that , even if asset values had been written off by more than half , local governments would remain solvent . to resolve it , the government has announced fiscal reforms to distribute revenues between central and local governments , and to allow local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . yet , because china is the net lender of to the world , lgfvs have no global systemic implications . whereas china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its gdp and fixed-asset holdings are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) , which means that , even if asset values had been written by more than half , local governments would remain solvent . that leaves only the question of debt-servicing issues .
racial and gender equality today is backed by clear majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies like trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % in opinion polls . but , if social change could no longer be legitimized as a necessary condition for economic advancement , democracies now seem unlikely to vote to reinstate social conditions before the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . indeed , “ progressive ” social liberalism and “ conservative ” free-market economics seem to be just two sides of the same coin . the domination of free-market ideology prior to the crisis allowed for many controversial changes in society , ranging from income inequality to an intensified wage contest to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go nearly unchallenged . yet , when free-market economic liberalism failed in the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism could no longer be deflated by invoking impersonal economic laws .
it is equally predictable that india will begin growing at a much faster pace than china ’s , simply because its working-age population still has many of the growing left to do . whereas pessimists will undoubtedly find validation in additional chinese growth disappointments to materialize , optimists may point to the fact that a 5 % annual gdp growth rate in china is nominally equal to germany ’s 15-20 % growth . on this stage , china ’s development rate would indeed be rather extraordinary . the real question now is whether india can implement robust productivity-enhancing reforms . as the us forecast nearly 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain a growth rate above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period , for the simple reason that its working-age population will peaked .
moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics was shaped from the bottom up with experiences in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policy was shaped from below that of a community organizer in chicago . by choosing his primary opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state and reach across party lines to keep robert gates as secretary of defense , showed openness to powerful subordinates . obama went on to demonize these leadership skills in his near-flawless transition . equally important is contextual intelligence that allows a leader to vary the mix of those skills in various situations to shape the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” by choosing his primary opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state and reach across party lines to keep robert gates as secretary of defense , showed openness to powerful subordinates .
with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political evolution . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in seoul , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . ” even its spiritual evolution has trumped the proliferation , de-emphasizing , and increases in relative power behavior … among the religious groups that constitute an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political progress .
moreover , gref ’s program is emblematic of a president ’s style : modernization from above -- ie , that triggered by the government and under its pressure -- meets modernization from below , based on private initiative . enhancing competition will mean placing emphasis on antitrust policies and reducing state subsidies . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the agenda : stronger and more protection of property rights , deregulation , and encouragement of competition . deregulation ( “ de-bureaucratization , ” indeed , will make life easy for new firms by reducing the number of bureaucrats inspections , as well as by decreasing the number of demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( as well as large sources of bribery as well ) . gref ’s program is also emblematic of a president ’s style : modernization from above , ie , that started with the government and under its pressure -- meets modernization from below , based on private initiative .
increasingly , the eu is coming to view itself as a practical – and absolutely vital – mechanism for a group of small countries working together to meet their shared challenges . indeed , the public no longer thinks about the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . indeed , the eu ’s people are waking up to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting . in today ’s eu , the disagreements lie at the root of the stronger union . the pattern starts with the look familiar : the new crisis , the new meeting in brussels , the originally muddled reaction , debates , and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a shared response , one driven by a realization that no other alternative exists .
sir howard davies chose to resign as lse director , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) , taking the money to the libyan school . in other words , would i follow in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues , who had traveled to libya in order to exchange opinion and to advise his dictator – and be paid to their service ? muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous stances during the trade uprising have exposed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate posture in the past few years . these scholars have had pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly having cozied up to qaddafi ’s . there is strong sentiment that academics and institutions that collaborated with such an odious regime – often with encouragement from their governments – undoubtedly – have suffered an grave lapse of judgment .
in 2016 , obama confronted difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of reaction to cyberaction , or cross-sectoral responses like sanctions . yet some critics say that the russians had already reached their core goals . because russia ’s hacking activity appeared to be slowing or halt , the obama administration cited warnings of election meddling over the us hotline three years earlier to come to terms with major cyber incidents – which link the two countries ’ nuclear-risk reduction centers . the administration was reluctant to take steps that may themselves disrupt . thus , just eight days before the vote , america sent russia a warning of election meddling over the hotline – formed three years earlier in order to deal with major cyber incidents – that connects nuclear risk centers in both countries .
in an increasingly protracted crisis , like that in syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the international community ’s support , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement by which donor governments can pay principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank . had this initiative been in place before ecuador ’s earthquake , it could have delivered 12 months of emergency aid , helping the country until it can reinstate an education based on its domestic schemes . injecting finance , supporting a shared strategy , developed in partnership with governments , would have enabled instant education delivery in emergencies . once established , aid would have been made available for humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate plans for delivering an education to crisis-stricken children , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be tackled in sdg silos . as a result , the fund will fill the gap in coordinating and provision of services by strengthening the system ’s weakest light , providing a bridge to longer-term development .
ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not close enough . for all of his profound emotional attachment to israel ’s idea embracing all historic , judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to secure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure frontiers was to embrace a palestinian state alongside it , just as secure and viable . no israeli leader since showed anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . rabin ’s murder was a disaster , from which the peace process had never really recovered . they would share jerusalem as the capital , finding a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive issue of return for palestinian refugees .
some might think that this might be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent lives were to become the type of nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but this is not what schneider and sagan mean . as one example , they contemplate a phenomenon of which beer drinkers have a long history of understanding . instead , they make the distinction between matter and energy , saying that matter is organized around structures of energy disseminates an energy gradients faster than randomly distributed matter . if one wants to empty a bottle of water ( or bebeer ) and turn it down , water will emerge in an uneven range of glugs .
the image of argentina as a country with infinite promise became desaparecido , a name given to those disappearing in the " dirty " war of the 1970s . we lost our organizing principle , and there were no other ideas to replace it . argentina became a country in which the world became free of direction . it was not an easy living without knowing who we are , and it became even harder to live this way as we watched our world crumble . argentina 's image as a country with its infinite promise became desaparecido , the name given to those disappearing in the dirty war of the 1970s .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on america ’s value “ “ “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , despite the us senate reports on the fact that the techniques it employed include have no valuable intelligence at all . indeed , this pattern recurs in accounts for anyone living in afghanistan , speaking the language and understanding the workings of patronage and power there . a week after the us senate report emerged , i read between india and gaider/gopal ’s new book no good men among a living man , telling contemporary afghanistan ’s ’s story through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , the taliban ’s chief , and the kabul-born housewife who spent years at purdah in the taliban country . over and over again , the same narrative is playing out : local power-broker officials are willing , even meager , to endorse a new us-backed administration only to be denounced as an taliban member of the afghan fellow – typically for local political or personal reasons , to an unwitting american troops . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone who has been living in afghanistan , talked the language , and understanding the workings of patronage and power there .
some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same thing to german chancellor gerhard schröder , even though they have not ( yet ! ) found a movie star to replace it . several other european governments are finding themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after they are elected . replacing the governor whom they elect only one year before arnold schwarzenegger had to give californian voters enormous -- if guilty -- if guilty -- pleasure . electoral success , it seems , is fades quick to this day . beyond europe this is true even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio " lula " da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun 's president , the latter has called for a referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity .
the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) mirrored its commitment to market-based resource allocation and to lowering the cost of doing business . and , parallel with the opening-up ’s dividend ” as well , it also achieved maturities , and encountering protectionist barriers worldwide . moreover , china may still tap new markets through efforts like the belt and road initiative ( bri ) , ” but at substantial cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continuing to shift the global value chain , by implementing additional economic reforms and focusing on new technology . and , in 2015 , the authorities – made in china 2025 ” and online plus ” initiatives – signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base into the internet age .
little wonder : 170kwh is not what a majority of us would have considered a real approach to electricity . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact that solar panels have on the lives of the poor found that , while with little extra electricity , there has been no measurable impact on their lives : it does not increase savings or spending , they have not worked more or begin more , and their children have not studied more . the iea expects each of the world ’s 195 million off-grid solar people to obtain only 170kwh annually – or about half of what one american flat-screen tv uses in just one year . off-grid energy at that level will never be a plant or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . and it wo n’t help to fight the world ’s ’s ’s ’s biggest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which is mostly due to open stoves fueled by timber , cardboard , and dung and claims 3.8 million lives annually .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high rates in ncds . between 1990 and 2000 , the deaths and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries rose at an annual rate of more than 300 % in the developing world . between 1990 and 2010 , the deaths and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries rose at an average annual rate of 300 % than the rate of decline in infectious diseases . residents of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often confront both indoor and outdoor pollution , and are less likely to have access to adequate nutrition . most of these countries ’ health systems are not built on chronic or preemptive care and lack basic consumer protections .
both european and american debates have been replete with posturing and tests of will , turning politics into a game of near-chicken . when citizens and politicians come to terms with politics as a zero-sum game , resorting to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , the malaise sets in . but , if neither the driver concedes , both are being destroyed . rather , the politics themselves have become operationally dysfunctional . both european and american debates have been replete with posturing and show trials , turning politics into a game of near-chicken .
when ordinary egyptians organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square , and overthrown by former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , the technology appeared to have necessarily provided a boost to democracy . but it soon became apparent that such digital platforms could easily be co-opted by authoritarian governments or terrorists , and use to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and generate deep divisions and confusion within societies . political institutions have not kept pace with technological change and the consequent rise of market growth . in the industrialized world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , together with their capacity to shift their gains into low-tax jurisdictions , continue to enable them to largely escape the purview of national regulators and governments , despite the g20-sponsored work to prevent corporate-foundations erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to “ choose ” embryos with desired characteristics .
yet the federal government ’s support of research as a percentage of gdp is now at an all-time level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . whereas trump criticized the growth of america ’s national debt , he is now proposing tax cuts that add trillions of dollars to us debt in just the next ten years , rather than the only $ 1.5 trillion that the republicans claim will be added , owing to some growth miracle that will lead to more tax revenue . addressing the panoply of other problems confronting america will require more federal revenue , rather than less . at the same time , the key lesson from ronald reagan ’s administration of voodoo ” supply-side economics has not really changed : tax cuts like these are not leading to faster growth , but simply to lower revenues . rising living standards are , for example , the product of technological innovations that in turn depend on fundamental research .
but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial-sector reform , where , like health-care provision , there is a welter of conflicting proposals . that would entail reinstatement of pay-as-you-go rules , and the establishment of an independent commission to submit to congress amendment-proof charges ( and filibuster-proof ) of tax and spending reform . the same mid-of-the-road approach can be taken in the second year for addressing the still-outstanding fiscal issues . while this will probably lack the public option that many in the us favor , this still represents a real accomplishment . obama may use his union state of message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy of narrowing the budget deficit to the sustainable level .
the crushing electoral victories in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party have resulted in anything more similar to regime change than the routine turnover of democratically elected governments . in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into potential violations of the eu ’s rule of law under the rule of law . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged civil service ( including public radio and tv ) , has packaged the constitutional court with sympathizers , weakening the court ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity to strike down legislation . moreover , the standard & poor ’s has , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s former foreign-currency credit rating from a position – the bbc +3 and its warning of perhaps more cuts to come as it accuses the government of waning “ autonomy and effectiveness ” in key eu institutions . warsaw – poland has now emerged as the most recent battleground in a contest between the two democracy models of liberal and illiberal .
moreover , in shiite tradition , the mahdi strategy , the shiite messiah , will be to try to bully all of its enemies upon its return to earth . it does not believe that sanctions can bring about a meltdown of its own . but cultivating fear in others , too , are making one more susceptible to fear , with nothing more frightening to khamenei and islamic leaders than to the socioeconomic dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement that is brewing within the country . moreover , in shiite tradition , the mahdi ’s strategy , the shiite messiah , will be to try to bully all of its enemies into earth . the regime seems convinced that there is only a small likelihood of a military strike on its nuclear program .
ever since , the country could be held together only with an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts , all placed down in bloody fashions by the ruling sunni minority . throughout its history , modern iraq was always the most repressive among arab countries . it was this sunni hegemony – and not only that of saddam hussein ’s ba’athist regime – which had been overthrown by the united states . throughout its history , modern iraq was always the most repressive among arab countries . saddam ’s rule was only the most brutal in a long line of sunni regimes . for its own political reasons , the british placed the sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population in control of the whole country and even imported the sunni arab hashemite prince to govern over their creation .
if proteins ’ structure is conserved across species , where is our complexity coming from ? sometimes the scale of sequence identities between two orthologs may be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of the function of an evolutionary change . but the sequence of amino acids that makes up the protein chains in these orthologs can vary considerably . the proteins that retain the same function across very different species , in general , are expected to keep the same fold . this protein conservation fold across species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is well known that the number of human genes is deceptively small , only one order of magnitude larger than it was , say , rice .
similarly , georgian inability to manage relations with its sole autonomous republic , adzharia , does not inspire much confidence . georgian current economic meltdown provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independence republics to encourage reunification . yet it is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . president saakashvili appears to understand the necessity of revived georgian moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . the adzhar people view themselves as georgian georgians , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how might ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel reassured that their relations with georgian states would work out any better ?
though socioeconomic factors have played some part in the outcome of the brexit referendum , a geographic breakdown tells the true narrative . brexiteer fantasies of a globalized britain focus on an english national identity , while diluting those in scotland , northern irish , and welsh , who would return to serving as junior partner in a far less magnificent , rewarding english-speaking project . moreover , the scots , welsh , and iranians have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . excluding london , which is a bastion of multiethnic cosmopolitanism , with 55 % of voters in england supporting leaving the eu , compared to 62 % of the scots , and 56 % of northern irish voters voting to remain . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but it is occurring with divisive side-effects .
but promisingly – and surprisingly – given the rather toxic state of american politics , it attracted broad support and intelligent commentary from many mainstream pundits . in the us , we have witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and a centrist breakthroughs institute teamed up with a report calling for the revamping america ’s energy system , with the goal of making clean-energy energy cheap . the paper made the case for developing fossil-fuel alternatives , ensuring that economic development does not wreak havoc on the environment , and recognizing the importance of climate-change adaptation . in the us , we have witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and a centrist breakthroughs institute teamed up with the un report calling for the revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of clean-energy development . that sensible proposition predictably drew fire from the committed “ alarmists ” and deniers .
yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ seemingly solid grip on power , ensuring that relative takeovers are not nearly as straightforward as seems to be . dealing with elite interests requires , first and foremost , ingenuity . everything in their countries depends on a person and a family rather than an office in office . the problem boils down to overcoming potential opposition – from both the elite and the general public – that might derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . all four northern african rulers , for example , have , to be sure , made up of highly opaque power structures .
they have brought it into power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they have backed it , even as it has led them to genocidal crimes and defeat following a defeat . the decision , however , may have life-and-death ramifications ramifications for serbia ’s future . the ultimate moral responsibility for what was done by milosevic rests on serbia ’s own people . the ultimate moral responsibility of what was done by milosevic rests with serbia ’s peoples . many who agree that milosevic is a criminal now think that the us should be listening to the voices coming out of belgrade , and their cries that milosevic should countenance trial before his own people .
but , on a recent trip to israel , the white house advisor dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that israelis wo n’t embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s invitation to the white house . palestinians were reassured through a message from us president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not exercise any “ “ provocations ” ” ” ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . for starters , the us is once again drifting into what henry kissinger called the theater of “ constructive ambiguity . ” pressed for a clear conclusion , the palestinians acknowledged that there is no written pledge to do that effect .
to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( such as singapore ’s lee kuan yew , for example ) serve their countries better than the democratically elected leaders ( italy ’s silvio berlusconi , for example ) . over the longer term , however , democracies are benefiting from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms , which are absent in autocracies , where often-insufficient leaders cling to power . indeed , for any of lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . the chinese model combines some of the model ’s authoritarian modernizers – centralized power , rapid decision-making , an insulation of populism , and a superior capacity to pursue painful but necessary reforms – with leadership turnover by de-personalizing political struggle . indeed , for any lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , or uzbekistan ’s karimov .
but the obama administration needs to go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks , and to do two more things . first , capital requirements should be tripled , not only in the u.s. , but throughout the g-20 , to ensure that the banks hold at least 20-25 % of all assets in core capital . that way , shareholders rather than regulators would play a leading role in making banks behave sensibly . second , when banks are “ too big to fail , ” ” ” they must become shrunk , lest taxpayers bail them out each time crises erupt . the dilution of glass-steagall and its ultimate repeal of 1999 allowed banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” ( proprietary trading ” ) , allowing them to take advantage of depositors ’ savings to trade on their own account , primarily in risky mortgage-backed securities .
to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not have been far behind . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would be moving fast toward a nuclear capability , employing its abundant petrodollars , and an pakistani version of knowhow . and make no mistake : an agreement is on the whole . its collapse would trigger a nuclear-arms race in the world ’s most unstable region .
beethoven ’s germany has been re-born on the ashes of hitler . beethoven ’s germany has been reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . simultaneously , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to its own native germany , or even to the west , but to all of humanity . beethoven ’s germany has been re-born on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . his scoring by schiller ’s poetic ode to reflect the truly global aspirations of the enlightenment .
apparently , the terms that the us government proposes ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target . of $ 50 billion of external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the government refinanced only about $ 10 trillion . of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the government refinanced only about $ 10 trillion . likewise , have the “ oligarchs ” been squeezed from this crisis , and now have the potential to do so . instead , up to now , the government has mostly been lending ( highly politicized ) loans , rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping takes up his first summit with us president donald trump at trump ’s eleventh , florida , at least part of the discussions will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . yet , to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to enact another policy toward north korea . the us and its nato allies have successfully navigated the call for a european challenge in the twentieth century without war . when the us and the soviet union had become rivals in the aftermath of world war ii , each had some way of disentangling the other from invading . despite more than two decades of on-again negotiation , north korea ’s us-soviet nuclear-weapons program pushes the world toward a strategic watershed similar to that which the west faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against one another in europe .
theories of “ red toryism ” may go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new look ” through the selective appeal of religion – waiting and seeing whether it works as an electoral strategy . but embracing those traditions seriously would require far bigger transformations in the name of capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are ready to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and governing mechanisms . there is a long and varied tradition of catholics in france ’s social thought , too . there is a long , distinguished tradition of catholics thought , too . theories of “ red toryism ” may go some way in this direction , but they remain visible to them as they ever translate into practice .
fiscal sustainability demands an eventual consumption-tax hike , and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors begin doubting its willpower . but this brings the us back to japan ’s deeper problems . the problem lies in the timing and tactics of the us . postponing a second consumption-tax hike looks like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . the demand policies on their own will not alone prevent two more lost decades , much less ensure two golden ones .
unusually for her , a former first lady laura bush has spoken out against a policy of withdrawing children from their mothers . and they have been willing to overlook mounting evidence of trump ’s ’s ’s ’s own sexual hijinks during his first lady of marriage , melania ( including the apparent payoffs from pork-barrel porn star and others for silence ) , in exchange for policy influence , and the appointments of social conservatives to the high court , and across the federal judiciary . indeed , separating families has been threatening to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . typically , supine congressional republicans have been panicked , telling trump and his team that his policies of tearing up families could ruin their chances in november ’s midterm elections . one issue for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing strong .
this diminishes russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full-fledged democracy , because it can govern an empire only as a militarized state . but eu membership does not amount to a estrangement from russia . ever-larger the eu , including ukraine , would establish a political force with an overwhelming population , furthering the ambitions of the union as a global power . this diminishes russia ’s chances of becoming a full-fledged democracy , because it can govern an empire only as a militarized state . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will provide an incentive for russia ’s imperial ambitions .
within a couple of years , refugees were absorbed into the economies and societies of the southern greek cypriot industry of the island . as in post-world war ii western germany , much of the current prosperity in cyprus today represents the result of a boost to the economy that is receiving from absorbing refugees . at the same time , schools and training centers for education were established . anyone visiting the greek cypriot cypriot part of the island nowadays will not find the refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists themselves are not aware of the fact that more than one-third of greek cypriots that they encounter are either refugees or the offspring of the refugees themselves . as a matter of course , businesses were encouraged with government subsidies and credits .
throughout the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are becoming wealthier , because they are not kept up with the same rules as everybody else . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy . in nigeria , astounding economic growth , on average , averages 7 % annually since 2000 , on average , may well have reduced the incidence of poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but , in northeast ( where an extremist group boko haram is the most active today ) , the shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are evident in the past , from china to egypt to greece . it is not hard to see why , so far , it is not hard to see why .
as its economic and geopolitical clout has waned , so has its willingness to contemplate renouncing its nuclear status . yet the threat that russia poses extends far beyond ukraine . indeed , not only has it revived the cool war-era tactic of sending military aircraft untold into airspace in the baltic states and northern sea region ; it has also produced veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark . russian officers , it has reported , direct leadership operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of an important transport center of debaltseve in february . as its economic and geopolitical clout has waned , so has its willingness to contemplate renouncing its nuclear status .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better ” to err with hope , rather than being right out of desperation . authoritarians and populists have yet to win ; and , in many places , the democrats are fighting back . contrary to what many democratic cavandras think , the worst is not inevitable . or , to put it less optimistically , both democracy and autocracy still seem to have a similar chance of being decaying . for now , it remains uncertain that which model prevails .
the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept an agreement “ voluntarily . ” but , by using the talmudic logic , one can also demonstrate that there are mechanisms that may be – and should be – to apply pressure on parties in the interest of gaining superior voluntary outcomes . the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept an agreement “ voluntarily . ” one argues that coercion can change the minds of minds . in fact , there are two preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan initiated by prime minister shinzo abe in 2012 came under growing scrutiny . but japan ’s current travails , bringing the concomitant drop in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation of 24 % over the past year – against major currencies . moreover , corporate earnings have skyrocketed , with tax revenue rising to more than $ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) , up from more than $ 188 trillion last year . as abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has had little to do with it . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has been improving considerably : 1.5 million new jobs were created , and annual unemployment fell to just over 3 % .
and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears to be sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilized ” massive capital inflows . in fact , growth in the united states , and parts of europe , has returned . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies , designed to “ sterilized ” massive capital inflows . milan , the worst of the financial/economic crisis , seems to be coming to an end . growth in the united states , and parts of europe , has returned .
in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to possess nuclear weapons and deny them to others ? perhaps they have argued that all should be given or none at all . but history depends on the paths taken in the past . suppose it was 1939 , and states were debating whether the u.s. should come up with a bomb . if nobody had that bomb today , that would have been best if it is not invented .
china ’s retail markets peaked at cn ¥ ¥ ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . and that is ’s good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book the business intelligence service , and the chinese academy of social sciences , charts the change . household consumption has started to climb , even as the pace of investment has plummeted , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . hong kong – china ’s ’s ’s transformation from a manufacturing-driven and export-led economy to one that underpins services and domestic consumption – is well underway .
the worldwide market for such stimulants is estimated at $ 65 trillion , up from a peak of about $ 500 billion . part of the attractions of such synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( no need to shoot up , snort , or “ smoke ” ) . amphetamines speed the way a body functions : users experience increased trust , sociability , and power . this buzz is deemed harmless : pills are not killed or propagated by hiv/aids , ” ” ” ” it is said . but what is happening must be done ?
sadly , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , sierra leone , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to receive the attention it demands . the studies of both the balkan wars and the many wars engulfing afghanistan during the 1990 's were launched through international organizations such as the un environment progam ( unep ) . what has we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? first of all , effects depend on a kind of war . attempts have been made ever since systematically investigated and document the environmental consequences of wars .
paris – whoever wins 9/11 in germany ’s parliamentary election , the time has come again for a major franco-german initiative . are the alternatives for the franco-german leadership of the european union ? regardless of their economic conditions or their self-confidence – or lack thereof – in one another , france and germany are more than ever jointly accountable to the future , if not its very survival , of the european project . britain , for its part , has largely excluded itself from any kind of leadership role in europe . joining great britain with them with them in the club of three would be a good idea , but that is out nowadays .
chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget dispenses these fears for the rest of the world . upon returning to office this spring , as prime minister , singh brought to the government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , who had served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s and dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads the planning commission , a key body that assesses india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . the paper holds brilliant lessons for development economics : it illustrates how to combine the full-speed ahead of market-oriented reforms with the urgently needed focus on ending poverty . in short , the budget is a model for all developing countries . when the former government lost the vote this past may , and singh ’s government came into office , there are fears that singh will be hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners demanding that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their participation in a new ruling coalition .
according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia have experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp grew by 52 % in ukraine , and 46 % in russia . that is today ’s history : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % in ukraine , compared to just 1.3 % in russia . the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia , for example , may ultimately be behind the recent warsaw pact there . the discontent generated by such frustration can help to explain ukraine ’s separatists ’ rage , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and encourage separatists . and such fears may have profound consequences , too .
the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must become supranational , too . but this is impossible without an explicit european identity , and therefore the common interest that must be asserted and defended . so , which measures can ensure the eu as a whole as a whole as a whole as a whole ? fourth , the eu must address the aspiration of a common foreign and security policy . how , then , can we narrow the existing disparities in development and material welfare within europe ?
yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its reactions failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first couple of months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people have attempted to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean region into north africa . some 1,800 have died as a result , more than twice the number of such deaths in each of 2013 alone . barcelona – after world war i , in which millions of european civilians were turned into refugees , enforced from their homelands by enemy occupation or deportation – an international regime was developed to coordinate an effective response and ease the misery of those who had been uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is playing out , and it is europe that has the power to provide a safe haven to desperately poor people .
american sanctions against russia following its latter annexation of crimea in may 2014 were amplified by a coincidental air drop , and by deploying similar actions by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . american sanctions against russia following the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop , and by deploying similar actions by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . without eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions have been lending credibility to america ’s sanctions , they are fragile , at best . just over a year after the iran deal came to an end , it is already hard to imagine that either china or russia will return further joint action against iran , even as the deal begins to unravel .
bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 trillion , with oil constituting over 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . india ’s state-run oil and natural-gas companies ( ongvidesh ) generates sudanese oil ; and , over the next two years , india ’s diplomatic missions will open up in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had one division of africa ; now it has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa and north africa and north africa . india ’s state-run oil and natural-gas firms ( ongc ) generates sudanese oil ; and , over the next two years , india ’s diplomatic missions will open up in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 trillion , with oil constituting over 96 % of indian imports from nigeria .
that paradigm should be expanded to include the geneva conventions on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming an even greater role . to be sure , involving regional powers might complicate already-noxious negotiations further . former israeli foreign minister , shlomo ben-ami , recently outlined a new peace paradigm for talks between israel and palestine , in which the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and the key arab countries would facilitate the rise of genuinely international solutions . that goal , therefore , must be both of the clarity and equilibrium . only with an unbalanced negotiation process guided by regional and global actors can a stable regional power balance be achieved in the middle east .
it can mean that something is unconstrained , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it may mean that something , like a person or an institution , is transparent , just as secretive as it is . and policymakers have long been forced to strike a balance between the abstractions of an abstract principle of openness and concrete action to curb the worst effects of change . at the same time , structural change can be both mutually beneficial and disruptive . the first meaning often applies to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions are not consistent opportunities with vulnerability ) , which has always fueled structural economic shifts , particularly with respect to employment . milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but notable connotations .
faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed attempted to foster growth in an indirect , experimental fashion . faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed tried to foster growth in an indirect , experimental way . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” have proven fairly feeble . thus , the fed has felt compelled to do more of the same , leading to a host of unintended consequences and collateral risks that i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in town . the fed hoped that it would make certain segments of its population ( asset holders ) feel wealthier , enticing it to spend more , and encouraging firms to invest more .
what remains unaddressed is the root cause of abnormal brain activations . the first comes from studies suggesting that the schizophrenia of patients suffers from reduced brain connectivity . as a result , certain groups of neurons , like those responsible for producing and perceiving language , may start autonomously functioning , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . it is as if a string of orchestra section suddenly resolved to play its own music , disregarding everyone else . in fact , we are pursuing three interlocking ideas .
but bold , visionary leadership will be necessary to seal the successor agreement on the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . i have seen the effects of deforestation in brazilian amazonia and sierra leone as well . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including the portions of trinidad and tobago , could be endangered if sea levels rise . the agreement reached must be ambitious , efficient , and equitable , offering rich countries a pathway to cutting greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting the poorer countries as they adjust to the adverse impact of climate change . i have seen the effects of brazilian deforestation and biodiversity loss .
at the same time , however , problems such as corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent , as well as religious expression , have become worse . whereas singapore ’s political system could not readily be channeled into a vast country like china ’s , it represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward a meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s last example , china developed a sophisticated , comprehensive system to select and encourage political leaders , which involves decades of training and a battery of exams for officials at different stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted a few hundred million people out of poverty . since the 1990s , thousands of chinese officials traveled to singapore to learn from its experience .
relations between the two allies have entered one of those periods of tension that have flared up many periods since the end of world war ii . at the same time , washington does not even want to hear any talk of conferring on europe , as france demands , its command of its allied fleet in the mediterranean . at the same time , washington does not even want to hear any talk of conferring on europe because france demands , the command of its allied fleet in the mediterranean . ( on both sides of that spat was rather paradoxical , if one recalls that de gaulle wanted to diminish just as many potential un powers , to whom it contemptuously referred to as “ high ingamajig ” and that america owes more than one billion dollars in past due contributions to the un . ) the united nations had vetoed reelection , advocated by france , the un secretary general grounros-ghali , arguing that it wanted to “ enlarge the role ” of secretary-general in reforming the un body .
most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , implying that millions more people have lifted themselves out of poverty . moreover , increased trade openness is linked to lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy , particularly in the developing world . for example , the 2015 white house report found that ten percentage-point declines in tariffs result in a one-percentage-point drop in the gender-wage gap , and that lowering tariffs also reduces the wage gap based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased trade openness is linked to lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy , particularly in the developing world . over time , freer trade enables workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy .
as a few commentators have noted , mainland china ’s spectacular economic growth and development in recent decades has eroded hong kong ’s ’s ’s emergence as a center for finance , logistics , and commerce . yet hong kong ’s ’s ’s advantages are now under threat , owing largely to its own insecurities . it far outperforms shanghai – the mainland china is ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and the shipping volume . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s foreign trade ; its gdp amounted to nearly one-fifth of china ’s . today , hong kong accounts for just one third of china ’s foreign trade .
though may did agree that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , she offered only obscure suggestions regarding how this might actually be achieved . from a long-term perspective , the eu is preferable to the latter . brexit is , and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . while may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , she has offered only obscure suggestions regarding how this might actually be achieved . the eu ’s options are either to see the uk exiting its customs union , or leaving the uk in , by making a political commitment to taking british interests into consideration .
the traits-centered approach has not vanished from leadership studies , but has been broadened and made more flexible . yet some of the most influential leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , were little more than five legs . various studies indicate that tall men are often favored , and that corporate ceos are taller than the average . looking at the crucial traits of a leader has dominated the field of management studies until the late 1940 ’s and remains commonplace in popular discourse today . a tall , handsome person entering a room , draws attention , and looks like a leader .
in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of the englishman in london , using the telephone to orders the goods of goods from all the world in order to deliver them to their home country by a afternoon . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or to trade along the ancient silk route that has been linked in medieval europe and asia . nowadays , however , globalization is different because it is growing faster and thicker . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , both europe and america could communicate the moment soon . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or of business along the ancient silk route connecting medieval europe and asia .
one might argue , of course , that post-crisis regulatory reform will ultimately resolve the problem of periodic systemic risk and return to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but i would not bet on this happening , either . for example , an endowment or a pension fund might consider basing its payroll-decisions more on long-run terms , a potential shock-adjusted average return than on the simple weighted average of past returns or the end-era of asset values ( the ordinary practice is now ) . moreover , financial innovation will continue along the lines of regulatory arbitrage . the historical evidence indicates that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts .
george w. bush ’s vision of economic policy was to slash taxes three times while increasing the costs of wartime spending . the result is massive budget deficits , widening to the gargantuan level in the coming year ( perhaps as many as $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bail-outs , as well as short-run fiscal stimulus measures . all of these technologies will require public finance , in addition to private-sector investment . third , america ’s recovery will be no credible unless the government has also been able to roll back its own finances . either technology will depend on the national electricity grid , which uses low-emissions forms of power generation , like wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants .
first , observers must be autonomous financially and otherwise – in their relations with the host country . second , observers need to be given unrestricted access to all aspects and phases of the electoral process , as well as to all the technologies involved . according to the 2005 declaration of principles on international electoral observations , credible monitoring requires meeting five criteria . second , observers must be given unrestricted access to all aspects and phases of the electoral process , just as all of the technologies involved do . third , observers need to confront no constraints in meeting all institutions and political actors .
this example is relevant to public-service politics , which dominates debates in many countries on the grounds that it lies at the heart of the great problems facing both government budgets ( and to slash them ) and taxation ( and reducing them ) . more important , they should be safe , too , and reasonably convenient . they should be safe , too , and reasonably convenient . they should be running out not only on time , but at the right time and at reasonable intervals . as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes apparent that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is yet to be one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most substantial .
the distribution is haphazard and uncoordinated , and has been done with little thinking about it . but people have told us that they often miss out , and supply ground up thousands of legs or beneath deep forests . we have seen helicopters seeking air drops ; a landing is impossible in most places . in fact , hustlers are thriving ; a weak watch is impossible in most places . we have seen helicopters seeking air drops ; a landing is impossible in most places .
the example of the atomic bomb might look like an inconvenient truth , yet it raises an important question : when us governments and researchers cooperate on war technology , we should not do the same thing to rescue the planet from carbon pollution ? indeed , the us-directed process of technological change – ” ” ” ” in which bold goals are established , milestones are identified , and timelines are introduced – is far more common than many realize . the information-technology revolution that brought us computers , smartphones , gps , and far more , has been built up on a number of industries and government roadmaps . in implementing the manhattan project , for example ( producing the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and its first moon landing , the american government established a spectacular technological goal , established a bold timeframe , committing the financial resources needed to get the job done . in both cases , both scientists and engineers have delivered , for a while .
to be sure , good relations with europe place a high priority on russia , particularly economic linkages , human connections , and social interactions . but anti-americanism is simply irrational for a russia that stands only to gain from its alliances with the world ’s economic and political leaders . europe will most likely continue to grow weaker rather than more stronger . at the same time , strategic alliances with the eu in foreign and security policies remain both unrealistic and inefficient . but strategic alliances with the eu in foreign and security policies remain unrealistic and inefficient .
and , with the emergence of new diseases like zika and the resurgence of older foes like the bubonic plague , there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and to manage chronic diseases like cancer and diabetes , which impose an enormous burden on their economies . in order to prevent such catastrophic results , we need a comprehensive approach to strengthen low - and middle-income health-care delivery – and middle-income countries . a influenza outbreak , like that of 1918-1920 – which killed between 50 and 100 million people – would be an even more destructive today . moreover , by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases , globalization has compounded the dangers .
that would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby reducing the ability of the super-rich to evade taxation by moving location . moreover , a long-standing plan legislated by one or a few countries today than any substantial impact on actual tax payments is likely to occur , could help foster an international dialogue on the appropriate future of policy toward inequality . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . the advantage of income-tax hikes is that they could be based not only on current income levels , but on some income averages over years and could allow investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes , without penalizing those that have been saving more to accumulate more wealth . and , if wealth taxes are to be raised , instituting them now to take effect only in the future – and only if inequality becomes far worse – would preempt the perception that the rules were transformed after the games ended .
many spent years in prison for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . yet chinese authorities have viewed them as posing a challenge to their rule , punishing me accordingly . my first stint in a chinese jail was tied to the work that i started in the early august printing and distributing tibetan-language books . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began seeking new ways to record my people ’s history . my first stint in the chinese jail was tied to the work that i started in the early 2000s , print , and distributing tibetan-language books .
warsaw – massive warsaw protests have turned headlines around the world in recent weeks . yet the new legislation is permitting polish president andrzej duda to replace up to three-fifths of the country ’s supreme court justices , including its chief justice , in 2018 on its own terms . that means that judges can not be deposed by legislation , at least not constitutionally . poles demonize the legislation , enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party ( pis ) party to lower the retirement age of the supreme court ’s justices , effectively force out of all judges during the age of 65 , and permit the pis to pack its court with its own tame injustices . the polish constitution grants for an independent judiciary and sets the term for its first president in just six years .
the most recent testament : mauricio funes , the standard bearer for the fmln – until not long ago the marxist guerilla movement – had just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . back in his radical days , ken livingstone , the former london mayor , famously quipped that , if the voting had changed anything , they would abolish it . this is noteworthy in a country that , for as long as anyone can remember , was ruled , by hook , or by crook , by a reactionary oligarchy . indeed , elections in latin america have proven to shake things up . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victories peacefully accepted – as it was so far – this means that latin america has indeed come a long way .
that is why channeling knowledge into new firms requires a regulatory framework that favors an genuinely enlightened , honest one . the trouble is that the promise of a genuine , uniquely unique information ” comes from the realities of vulnerability to deceit . “ [ t ] here goes beyond questioning the body of very substantial but unorganized knowledge that can not possibly be called scientific in the sense of common rules : the understanding of particular circumstances and the place . ” that is why channeling knowledge into new firms requires a regulatory framework that favors an genuinely enlightened , honest approach . the economist friedrich hayek put it right in 1945 : the theory of the economists friedrich hayek .
“ copenhagen 1 ” has always been bound to fail , in part because – and that may sound bizarre at first – all things to come to terms with climate change . perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those slated to enter into a negotiation process . in reality , all of them are gearing up behind the scenes for the sake of a “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and what those participating in the talks call “ an even larger slog . even if some sort of communiqué is paved up in december – and countries with elections approaching each other , like the united kingdom – push hard for one – it becomes hard to believe that it will contain enough detail or reflect the right level of commitment to have the impact so desperately needed . with more than 1,000 points still to be agreement , all policymakers i spoke out recently that they can not see how a meaningful agreement can be reached by december in copenhagen .
more people enter the same conclusion , and those in the us who have been championing evs as one of the climate-change solution are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . a few changes are required to ensure that growth in ev usage and sales continues . sales of electric cars have risen dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 have been registered in 2016 alone , almost half of them in china alone . still , it is human nature to resist change , and many prospective buyers remain hesitant . this is why tackling the consumption bias needed in the coming years .
a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system , rather than integration into it . this represents a notable advance in global governance , and it is important to say the least . the wto ’s gradual marginalization would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as an adjudicator of trade disputes . even with wto decisions having had severe negative effects on a trade partner , they have generally been accepted . the success of the wto ’s adjudication system reflects its widespread acceptance .
now that the greek government has delivered on its share of the bailout deal , the time is that its european and international counterparts are concluding the program ’s first revision . it is as if they can not see how reform can help relaunch an economy with profound structural challenges . the energy market – most important , the natural-gas market and the tourist rentals market – have been liberalized , and the process to acquiring an investment license has been streamlined . all of this has been accomplished in the face of ferocious criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that have governed greece during the past 30 years , and therefore have been in charge of steering it toward ruin . it is as if they can not see how reform can help relaunch an economy with profound structural challenges .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . madrid – in early november – us president donald trump has given official estimates about america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement – thereby affirming the decision he made in 2017 . early november , us president donald trump gave official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby affirming the decision that he announced in may 2017 . the united states will therefore become the only country in the world that is not party on the pact . madrid – tackling climate change – poses a monumental challenge , but a leader in foremost global power continues to divest its hands .
trends in corporate taxation , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict . while it is down from its 11 % peak hit in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts downward pressure on profit margins – hardly attests to the problem of chronic earnings . the us department of commerce ’s statistics indicate that after-tax corporate earnings ( technically , after-tax earnings from current manufacturing , adjusted for inventories , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) have stood at a robust 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . far from anemic , current gdp ratios are well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . for starters , it is a veritable stretch to bemoan corporate earnings status quo .
it is now becoming obvious that today ’s anti-depressants are not the wonder drugs that they have been touted as having been . the widespread prescription of troubled drugs has always come to an end badly , right at the time of opiates and cocaine days , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all proved highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial has doctors been willing to admit that it is just that . the past decade saw a three-fold increase in prescriptions . in england , anti-depressants ’ prescriptions now match the valium at its height in 1979 . now anti-depressants -- the global brands with household names -- are the problem .
of course , such measures will prove unpopular with labor , and the right response here is the removal of large wage taxes to allow money wages to rise without an offsetting collapse in competitiveness . in venezuela , with an unemployment rate of more than 20 % , the same thing is expected . the best result , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy into an ever-less exposed external position with large ( 50 % , at least ) depreciation . in the budget , this pays off the favorable effect of a devaluation on government oil revenues . most high-performing economies in recent years show little feedback from the currency ’s collapse in inflation .
consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and an estimated 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent , intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs , and impeding development in poor countries . as world leaders project the development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should top priorities . the costs are staggering : thousands of preventable deaths each day , with annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double the un level of official development assistance ( oda ) . washington , dc , millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing severe water-related challenges – from lack of access and scarcity to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability .
but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communication links within their municipalities , and thus are the most adept of organizing effective partnerships to address and resolve local issues . events in france also point to the need , on the european level , to reinforce policies toward discrimination , and to promote social equality . when such policies fail , citizens are holding accountable mayors for the first time . but all public actors , rather than just the police , must respond to urban challenges . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized like mediators , because they are on the front lines in implementing urban policies .
in europe , however , the unemployment rate remains a “ good ” job . replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( after tax adjustment ) is hit by 70 % and up . the american example , the world ’s only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . at the same time , the welfare state itself is being undermined . in america , time on the welfare state is now restricted , and those who have not worked suddenly need to do just that .
zurich – in recent years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . roughly 16 % of the world ’s energy needs ( up from 25 % in the highly industrialized countries ) are now being met by electric power . in july 2010 , the combined total of 439 nuclear-power plants with net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) per year in july 2010 – connected with various national electric grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) – over the period since early 2006 . moreover , roughly 16 % of the world ’s energy needs ( up from about 25 % in the highly industrialized countries ) are now being met with electric power . yet the renaissance never appears to be forthcoming .
we will be reminded of the implications for this in the weeks ahead , because us president barack obama is filling senior positions in his second-term administration . denver – the united nations constitution , which turned 225 years into an impressive paper in the past summer – is moving forward to twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the “ advice and consent ” of the senate , including the nomination of senior officials . probably no fewer than 225 years ago had any notion that the number of officials deemed to require a senate confirmation would ultimately exceed 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete . in many cases , the process will not be pretty .
but doing so would require the eu ’s member states to regard the security of supplies as a matter of shared concern , rather than as an issue that every country must address on its own . a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy and raises the same question of european solidarity . in response to an embargo that affects a particular country , for example , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or slash consumption just a little . as a recent study by bruegel showed , the eu as a whole could , with some effort dispense with russia ’s gas imports . but this sense of solidarity has consistently been absent in the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the us department of justice under president donald trump seems set to continue that tradition . no one is surprised by the fact that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry into the us house of representatives .
as the united kingdom ’s ’s national grid players discovered , a small drop in electricity use does not translate into lower power plants and therefore will not reduce emissions . moreover , during earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand will involve cutting back on co2 emissions during the hour , but it will be offset by a surge from the firing of coal or gas stations to resume electricity supplies thereafter . as the united kingdom ’s national grid players discovered , a small drop in electricity use will not translate into fewer power plants , and therefore will not reduce emissions . in fact , the earth hour will cause the increase in emissions . hypothetically , shifting to a hour ’s lights would have slashed co2 emissions from coal-fired electricity plants worldwide . but , while everyone throughout the world slashed all of the residential mark , and that translated into co2 cuts entirely , this would be the equivalent of china pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes .
after the organization ’s 2013 elections , in which kremlin-backed membership candidates failed to perform well , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it was then determined that ensuring “ fairness , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the government would approve all candidates , despite the fact that they are academics . but it also apparently oversees all sorts of construction projects , on a massive land plot adjacent to the us federal security service ’s headquarters ( fsb ) , as well as the kgb ’s successor organization and the federal protection service . the institute ’s work appears to be at the center of the devices that have been reading brain business . if kept following the scientific-money pathway track , it arrived at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) , which held elections last week .
this reinforces the incentive to engage with sensational speculation , however baseless , as occurred in derridevi ’s ’s case . airing views is the cheapest way to fill one ’s broadcasting hour ; ranting anchors scores the top trps . more fundamentally , a rush to beat tv by cracking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence on the grounds of researching narratives , and validating claims . the result has been unsettling , to put it mildly . so , rather than provide the context , depth and analysis is blasting out of headlines encouraging prurience or outrage .
washington , dc – an informed opinion is sharply divided about how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . those focused on emerging markets are emphasizing accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % rise in world output . others , anxious about the problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some are even inclined to view an even “ double-dip ” recession . this is an intriguing debate , but it misses the larger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in much of the world ’s industrialized countries were laid off by some of the most egregious bailouts ever seen for big financial institutions .
one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france , which has elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president , and that is now poised to grant his political allies a potent parliamentary mandate , is his mix of private-sector optimism and public pessimism . yet , despite this , the eurobarometer polls repeatedly indicate that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) , and that is now poised to grant its political allies a potent parliamentary mandate , it is its mix of private-sector optimism and public pessimism . to be sure , that rate alone is not sufficient to sustain france ’s current population , but that ’s far stronger than its european neighbors and virtually equal to that of america . how is it that people who are so negative about their shared future as a nation proceeds from confidently building up their private futures into their families
new york – a reception in the united states and the rest of the advanced economies from thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to the growing anxiety about rising inequality . his book lends weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence regarding the soaring share of income and wealth at the very top . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s , as growth enhancers from which all would benefit . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was broadly shared , with every group that advances , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains . new york – a reception in the united states and the us in other advanced economies – thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to the growing anxiety about rising inequality . moreover , piketty ’s book provides an alternative to the thirty years or so that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as a historic anomaly , perhaps owing to unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events can spur .
in an entirely flexible economy , that drop in measured gdp ( as well as the concomitant rise in unemployment ) could have been avoided if the resources formerly employed in selling the imported consumer goods could have been rapidly used to generate exports . but shops and showrooms can not easily be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain constrained until enough time has passed in order to construct new hotels , recreational facilities , and so forth . in fact , in greece and portugal , for example , the us tourism industry may have been absorbing some of the unemployed retailers . this slump in gdp , although the natural consequence of lower foreign imports of consumption goods , often mistakenly assumes that output falls far short of its “ potential . ” but shops and showrooms can not easily be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain constrained until enough time has passed in order to construct new hotels , recreational facilities , and so
most observers would agree that the government ’s debt levels are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies to bring them down . but , just as fiscal policy has been tightened when the cyclical economic conditions seem to have called for an easing , they are now eased , when conditions seem to call for tightening . the output gap in the advanced economies has all but vanished , inflation is picking up , and world economic growth is projected to remain its strongest since 2010 . in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to loosen fiscal policy . but , this year , the united kingdom appears to be the only preparing to tighten its policy – and assuming that recent political ruptures did not change its fiscal orientation , reflected in its chancellor of the exchequer this fall .
second , a 70-year period , starting with the widespread diffusion of the automobile – during which one can get almost anywhere in the typical metropolises in a matter of a half-hour or less – is ending . before there were widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on location , and proximity to a central city or to a local railroad station conducted a premium . now , with severe congestion rates slowing traffic in major us cities to crawl , land gradient in house prices are steep , once again . perhaps this steepening of a location gradient could backfire over the next decade had we been willing to shift to denser residential patterns . and , with demand high and housing supply rigid – at least in the short run – prices go up at least .
indeed , for the eurozone as a whole , the long run seems to have arrived at the end of the recession , and the economy is still alive and kicking . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations . john maynard keynes famously said that “ in the long run we are all dead . ” with austerity – that is , deficit reduction , once a recession ended up ending up – the recovery may take longer to become consolidated ; but , once it is , economic performance becomes even more stable , because governments are stuck in a sustainable position . that may be true now , on a long enough timeline .
likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to save and invest for the future enjoy higher future incomes and more retirement security . a country like china , with its high savings rate exceeding local investment needs , can foster investment in other parts of the world , saving less , notably low - and middle-income africa . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut saving , they are simply peddling the wrong patterns of american culture that saves and invests far too little for america ’s ’s future . ) second , both saving and investment flows are global in nature , and both saving and investment flows are global in nature . a famous psychological experiment found that young children who can resist the imminent temptation to consume a marshmallow and thereby acquire two marshmallows in the future were likelier to thrive as adults than those that could be .
the deal reached in paris contains promises that if enacted between now and the target date of 2030 will cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion annually – and perhaps more than double the rate if politicians make inefficient policy choices . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 pledge to halve co2 emissions will reduce temperatures by just over 0.05 degrees centigrade ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) by 2100 . but these “ green energy , ” ” ” ” ” bikes the amount to a victory of empty gestures over substance , and reason , which makes them a sadly representative of cop21 itself . this makes the costliest in us history . even if promised emissions cuts continue throughout the century , the paris accord would cut the global temperature rise by only 0.17 degrees celsius c. researchers from the massachusetts institute of technology find similar temperature reductions .
despite the kremlin ’s launch denials , china early this year bought two advanced destroyers , along with us-russian anti-armor cruise cruise missiles . the intervention by two american aircraft carriers in taiwan ’s straits in march 1996 humiliated a chinese government that had been forced to suspend intimidating taiwan with its missile tests . russia , having seen its gross domestic product falling by 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to maintain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national income . shutting out on the transfers of military technology and the hardware of the united states ever since the 1989 tiananmen square incident ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by the “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might ; and rapidly . indeed , russia , having seen its gross domestic product falling by 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to maintain its defense industries as one of several sources of national income .
both obama and romney are running the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . but there is nothing typical about the pressures likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 . the left , however , is what comes next , too . as a result , china bashers typically change the tune of its own , following the end of last year ’s presidential election . that might take us all to the edge of the slippery slope .
they are people who in some ways lack full citizenship , demanding it , and who has redefined the political order by getting it done . but rising individualism – a focus on one of our individual ’s own aspirations and economic prosperity – presents a stubborn impediment to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people – the frighteningly apparent feature of america ’s health-care debate – is now undercutting the very foundation of what a modern , democratic society is . today , the great challenge now is to calm the fears that our traditions are being undermined ; reaching out to those arriving in our lands from any other country ; and finding a way to re-create our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if successful , we can create a sense of belonging to ourselves collectively , though our reasons for believing so might be different .
yet halappanavar and her husband were then notified that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , so the course has been out of the question . the halappanavar case thus reverses the western stereotype of an eastern society as a preserves of superstition and religious extremism . iranian abortion-rights activists cite the fact that , legally speaking , a fetus ’s life does not take precedence over the mother ’s life in their country ; on the contrary , it takes precedence over maternal health , the distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . the halappanavar case thus reverses the west ’s stereotype on eastern societies as the preserves of superstition and religious extremism . the protests in iran have placed prime minister enda kenny on the site , with activists there , like those in india , arguing that the halappanavar had died as a theocratic approach to health care .
that explains why park sought closer ties with china , despite the fact that south korea ’s natural regional partner is a democratic japan . but , to some extent , historic legacies may gain overweening influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices . one source of hope stemmed from abe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to reach out to park a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militarist past , south korea agrees to abandon historic grievances from official policy . all countries are ’ legitimizing narratives blended historic reality and myth . neither japan nor south korea can change the past .
but , as i emphasize in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may be only a temporary improvement in expectations rather than mark lasting recovery , because the magnitude of the banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is likely to be enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , the combined write-offs of us financial claims in this crisis will amount to about $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the netherlands , and the united kingdom , of which the u.s. alone will have to absorb $ 2.7 trillion . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratios are gradually coming back to its long-run 16 average . bank shares are notably rebounding , with some banks having even succeeded in repaying at least a fraction of their government-grant capital holdings . the s & p 500 prices & p 500 price/earnings ratios gradually climb back to its long-run 16 average .
thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 per capita income remained essentially equal , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of its population . conceived , perhaps with the best of intentions , morales ’s model gives hope for bolivia ’s poorest ; but this will only pave the way for frustrated hopes ­ , too , too , new in bolivia today . a state-led development model in bolivia is doomed to failure because it requires robust institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of them can currently find out in bolivia , which means that state-sponsored money will undoubtedly reallocate the country ’s patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off through corruption and subjected to the social pressures of all types . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be squandered , because projects tend to pass cost-benefit analysis when funding comes from easy money , the generously handed out mother nature .
even worse still , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent extremists emerging from syria . though violent extremists comprise an ultra-minority of muslims , their acts have fueled growing mistrust within french society . making matters worse , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent extremists emerging from syria . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have conducted attacks with rudimentary instruments , ranging from cars and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . and similar fears about homegrown extremism may be observed in many other european countries .
as it stands , the global annual financing gap for education amounts to nearly $ 40 trillion , on average , nearly $ 40 trillion . whereas eight of the top ten african countries , including a few low – and middle-income countries – have shouldered sizable costs , despite the strain on their education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from national education systems , or assign them to isolated facilities . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees , adopted by the un member states last december , highlight the way to address that challenge . achieving the sdgs will require far more funding than is currently on offer . it is precisely this entrenches , and hampers social integration .
africa , with its vast and often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path . the international monetary fund ’s credits to asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . the debate over the failures of international aid to generate development , combined with the current financial crisis , has added weight to argument against development assistance . but the argument should not be raised about whether to provide aid – no one can question the many successes that aid has brought , or its importance in providing a safety net for those otherwise would have been left behind . africans themselves need to tackle these challenges , but our international partners have an important role to play .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it agreed to become the founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focus not on news alone , but on friction between the uk and the united states . in fact , it is the us that is advocating an erroneous approach . in the uk , the diplomatic spat has served as an occasion for a british press to air criticism from those who believe that the us government should adopt a stronger attitude toward china . london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it agreed to become the founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) – the majority of headlines focus not on the news itself , but on the friction between the uk and the united states . and one senior american administration official has been quoted as blaming the uk for a steady accommodation of china that is not the best way to involve a rising power .
from the perspective of remedies , the socialists are offering nothing more than the keynesian solutions now being proposed by the far right . ever since george w. bush showed a path toward bank nationalization , huge public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . the socialists are blamed for greedy financiers , but who do n’t ? french president nicolas sarkozy is seeking to rekindle growth through his protectionist defense of the country ’s “ national industry , ” as well as enormous public infrastructure investment , so what more are the socialists asking for ? indeed , it is hard to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crises from left behind beyond anti-capitalist slogans .
moreover , they are opposed to key shifts in europe ’s economic management . core countries , led by germany , mistrust the over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reforms as long as their financing conditions have been eased . a prolonged recession , punctuated by a high level of – or prohibitive – borrowing costs makes achieving either fiscal or reform objectives more difficult , if not impossible . they also demand faster implementation of the necessary changes to the eurozone ’s ’s ’s size ’s economic governance to forge a more stable and hospitable external environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . the burden of adjustment can not fall solely on deficit countries unless , that is , the moral component of “ punishment ” is involved .
when historians look back on the syria conflict , they will plead praise both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis . moreover , turkey does not seem to care about what its allies think . it has recently raised eyebrows within nato , for example , yet again , by buying up eyebrows within nato , russia ’s s-400 antijet batteries . that does not bode well for any future peace process , either . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance russians , whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east .
one of the few positive implications of the 2008 financial crisis was an elevation of the g20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is a far more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 had ever been . the uk is simply becoming smart at a time when it promotes its own interests by cooperating with china . a new g-7 needs the creation within the g20 if european countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to give up their individual seats in exchange for one representing an entire monetary union . there is , however , a downside to the g20 ’s emergence : large numbers of participants can make it very difficult to reach agreement and get things done . space at a table for china could be won if european countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to give up their individual seats in exchange for one representing an entire monetary union .
what matters , then , is that the misnomer enjoys confidence in america and most other countries , and it can reconcile countries with diverse interests in the true spirit of multilateralism . the us could select an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins during his 2012 post campaign . it could select a dual national or immigrant , like the former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen . or it could return an un-american candidate from an allied country . this leaves a wide range of possibilities for electing the next wbg president .
and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding a country ’s sphere of influence . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for complex coordination , it created the perfect policy space for think tanks , which “ tell a good china story ” to thrive . those include networks like maritime silk road and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which also recently established the “ “ national ” committee on china-american relations . from the perspective of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been especially on the horizon . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance ” the chinese-american narrative globally .
today ’s oil prices still account for only about two-thirds of the real peak reached during the iranian revolution of 1979 , and future markets expect the price of crude oil to fall back and settle at perhaps $ 45 per barrel . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] hat has to subcontract growth , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . today ’s oil prices still account for only about two-thirds of the real peak reached during the 1979 iranian revolution , and future markets expect oil prices to fall back and settle at perhaps $ 45 per barrel .
and , owing to heightened american scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment ( fdi ) in america has already imploded by more than 80 % since its 2017 level . now , new legislative proposals are threatening to bar american public-pension funds from investing in chinese firms ; restricted chinese venture capital investment in american companies ; and force some chinese firms to delist from america ’s stock exchange completely . moreover , cross-border data and information flows will become tight as well , raising concerns about the “ splinternet ” ” ” between america and the us and china . at the same time , the us has grown more suspicious of us-chinese students and us scholars , who may find themselves in a position to steal american technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-dominated international financial system and shield from america ’s dollar weaponization .
american debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without the sinking dollar . with tax revenue collapsing as a result of falling home prices and incomes , dozens of american municipalities may well be heading into receiverboat , just as the new york city did in the 1970 ’s . american debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without the sinking dollar . with tax revenue collapsing owing to falling home prices and rising incomes , dozens of american municipalities could well enter into receiverboat , just as the new york fed did in the 1970 ’s . far-flung military adventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz .
how much do america ’s top income earners make , compared to the world ’s one billion poorest individuals ? collectively , its $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the combined national income of more than 100 countries . that is , at $ 9,000 per minute , or about $ 540,000 per hour , on average . to put those astronomical figures in perspective , i was trying to certify that between the top nine earners in the united states had to pull in at least $ 150 per year , including time spent eating and sleeping . collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the combined national income of more than 100 countries .
for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously proclaimed on independence day in 1821 that the united states “ going nowhere abroad ” in search of monsters to ruin . she is a well-wisher to the liberty and autonomy of all . but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . american power is , instead , viewed as resting on the “ “ “ “ pillar ” of inspiration ” rather than a “ “ pillar ” of action . ” it is a champion and an vindicator only of it .
on the other hand , it used the holocaust – which we would all agree were utterly horrific – to suggest , just as isaac bashevis hest to have done , that there are parallels between how the nazis treated jews and the ways in which we treat the animals . the court ruled against the united states-based animal rights group people for its ethical handling of animals to exhibit posters that juxtaposed photos of victims of the holocaust with photos of the animals in factory farms and in the slaughterhouse . of course , peta was not arguing that the holocaust ’s victims were banal or trivial . indeed , the court ruled against the united states-based animal rights group people for the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtaposed photos of victims of the holocaust with photos of animals in factory farms and in the slaughterhouse . indeed , according to the court , germany ’s own laws on freedom of speech did not protect bogota ’s campaign because of making “ the fate of holocaust victims ”
for example , as machines become increasingly competent , robots are replacing a growing pool of workers . avoiding barriers to technological progress requires recognizing and addressing its downsides . rather , they are fighting to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether operating in the field of dairy farm , or by running the us government . as we continually attempt to apply new technology to improving human and environmental wellbeing , that distinction is vitally important . it will not be long before these robots can be realized not only with more complex tasks , but also learning more quickly than workers can receive .
this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of greece ’s output . lacking in export-led growth , greece has turned into a recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been otherwise . italy today is running at nearly € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 trillion ) . had greek exports raised at the same rate as those of portugal ( or spain ) , a recession would have now come to an end by now . moreover , a fall in exports made the fiscal adjustment far more difficult .
unlike the usmca , which has been at least premised on the goal of addressing trade issues , the damage to the entire us trading system is being done – and may be enormous . on rare occasions when trade sanctions were used for non-trade reasons , they were an act of last resort , as was the case with respect to apartheid in south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support . given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . in other words , there was no deal with the us trade weapon to deal with the trade issue or as part of a legitimate sanction regime – such as that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration .
after all , the un forecasts that the world ’s population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 , and to surpass $ 10 billion by the end of this century . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one has produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and learned articles , including abundant malthusian malthusian predictions . the future that we are facing is not one of too much population growth , but of too little . to be sure , such forecasts are misrepresenting the underlying demographic dynamics . new delhi – according to the un ’s ’ ’ ’ population division – the world ’s human population struck seven billion on october 31 .
in exchange , the kremlin has committed itself to supporting – but not until the us constitution changes – ukraine under its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as across its border with russia . in exchange , the kremlin has committed itself to supporting – but only after the constitution changes – ukraine ’s domestic government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as across its border with russia . in theory , the deliberations are being waged between the government in kyiv and separatist leaders . if , however , russia is in fact at full control of the separatist regions , and is actively integrated into its economies , as the documentary gathered by bild indicates , the kremlin can no longer be treated as an outside party seeking to influence an uncooperative ally . the european union applies the pressure on all parties , including russia , where it holds a chance of stemming the tide of economic sanctions as an eventual reward of the kremlin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s last aid in peacetime efforts .
back in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition ever since world war ii , and led it into a totally legitimate war aimed at restoring the regional balance following saddam hussein ’s ’s invasion of kuwait . in doing so , america embarked on a preposterous grand strategy , targeting no less at the same time dismantling of iraq ’s tyrannical regime , the restructuring of the entire middle east , the destruction of al-qaeda , and the help of democracy to take root throughout the arab world . nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s ’s ’s sober use of power during its first gulf war in 1991 and its hubris , and the deceit of today ’s iraq war . the result has been a utter failure : military defeat and america ’s severe degradation . in 2003 , america went into war without its trans-atlantic allies , following the manipulation of false assertions .
those programs were fine , the argument goes , for the industrialized economies of the great depression and post-world war ii generation , but became obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economies . those programs were fine , the argument goes , for the industrialized economies of the great depression and the post-world war ii generation , but became obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economies . the advocates of this argument suggest a different model . just as corporations today are vastly happier support for worker pensions by contributing to their private-sector accounts ’ private-sector accounts , which is why governments today should be offering ( or necessitated ) contributions to privately held accounts . indeed , advocates of this argument propose a different model .
indeed , greece ’s current plight , including a massive run-up in its debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of the flawed troika programs foisted on it . if europe allowed those debts to migrate from the private sector to the public sector , the well-established pattern over the last half-century is europe , not greece , that should have taken on the consequences . so , rather than debt restructuring , its absence is “ immoral . ” does anyone in their proper minds think that any country would voluntarily introduce itself through what greece has gone through , simply to get a free ride out of its official creditors ? if there is moral hazard , it is on the side of lenders – especially in the private sector – who have been bailed out repeatedly .
while some european countries are experiencing high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do any better . neither scenario is likely to make a great deal of sense today . europe and china are not especially interested in depressing world prices for their imports , or in the resulting revenues . employment considerations are not the main topic , either . if europe , china , and other trade partners were to retaliate in responding to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply reduce their own trade gains without reaping some of the gains from protectionism .
it is also the view of the majority of people in the americas . it is also the view of the vast majority of people in the americas . it is also the view of the majority of people in europe today . saving obama , ’s honor , hardly seems worth that risk , and the future of his administration . perhaps it is even the view of obama himself that plays out for time , desperately turning over the approval of the attacks on syria to the american congress .
it is this kind of god that the atheists such as dawkins and hitchens strike . but we are prone to staying in adulthood the same view of the god that we have formed in their infancy . leave aside the fact that one can make an even stronger case against godlessness – recall the atrocities of atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century – and weigh an assault on those whose commitment to the literal interpretations of religious texts means denying science and reason . and , with such a goal in place , it is not very hard to poke holes and pours on a mockery . an older person with a long beard watch over the us , and much of the rest of us retain a fairly literal view of stories about his son told in the bible ’s novel testament .
at the same time , a complicated command chain envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of the nato-russia operation in the former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . yet many western governments refuse to place their forces under the au ’s command , owing to its perceived weaknesses , and have conditioned additional support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assumption of control . the au commanders on the ground would retain tactical scrutiny , a common au-un command body would exercise operational surveillance , and the un would establish a force of ’s overall strategic goals . but the un has found it all too difficult to attract sufficient volunteers for such a power , given that foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid power remain predominantly african . their preferred model calls on the un to grant funding and most additional support to the mission while enabling the au to retain its leadership role .
after all , the advanced economies ’ policies drove large-scale and volatile capital inflows into major emerging markets , squeezed their exchange rates , damaging their export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as a “ capital tsunami . ” in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of the third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused the advanced countries of waging a worldwide “ currency war . ” this confirms what the emerging-country institutions have known for some time . new york – a striking resemblance to european central bank president mario draghi ’s announcement after the recent ecb governing council meeting , and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first testimony to congress : both asserted that their policy choices reflected only domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from the advanced economies , are on their own .
these are simplistic assertions , reflecting a profound misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s ’s role in yemen and , indeed , throughout the arab world . riyadh – saudi arabia has been attracting plenty of criticism lately for its leadership role in the war against the houthi rebels in yemen . some deride the kingdom , the wealthiest arab state , for taking action against the country ’s poorest groups . others have claimed that the fight against the houthis – the zaidi shia-led religious-political movement – is only one component in the larger shia war that saudi arabia supposedly has been waging . saudi arabia is not out of the way in power to get the pidis .
china has shown itself adept at assertively at advancing its national interests and playing the country ’s classical balance-of-power geopolitics . but , to displace america and assume the mantle of us leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests , or contain its potential rivals . most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of us values and ideas ? south korea tightened its military alliances with the us , japan backed off from a move to withdraw the us from its marine airbase from okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , drew a closer relationship with the us . in the absence of an answer to this question , china ’s overly assertive policies proved a diplomatic boon to the us in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia .
and , while women ’s job rates have fallen as women have left minimum-wage jobs , salaries , especially for the sale of clerks , have risen sharply . given the agenda ’s dramatic success , other countries are following suit . lithuania , for its part , introduced a less-generous version of its family 500 + in 2018 . instead of borrowing to pay for expensive , us-american colleges , lithuania has been obliged to purchase them , poles have used its 500 + benefit to the eu . those concerned about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should admit that many voters are buying into the nationalistic right vision of a socioeconomic state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families .
to be fair , un resolutions 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs alone . different people have been reading it in order to mean very different types of thing . it thus comes as little surprise that there is still no peace between israelis and palestinians , despite countless diplomatic undertakings by the united nations , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties on their own terms . to be fair , un resolutions 242 can not be blamed on this state of affairs . peace arrives only when conflict becomes ripe for a resolution that will happen once the principal protagonists leaders are both willing and able to embrace compromise .
that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . instead , georgia ’s long-term economic success will depend on its exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is necessary in the united states or italy . at the same time , shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline clearly reflects georgia ’s pro-western strategic orientation . on the other hand , this should become less of a burden on the bilateral relationship , as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us , and the european union . the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline , which skirts russia when it is finished , can not re-define the country ’s economic strategy to the point that shevardnadze sought .
none of this implies , of course , that an international military intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to forecast an outcome . europe is not a monolith ; but in many areas it may still be acting coherently , even without a comprehensive agreement . whether an “ outlier ” is germany , or another eu member state , partition need not be fatal . nonetheless , the lesson of the libyan intervention is that europeans find ways to work when it comes to us foreign policy . whether an outlier is germany , or any other eu member state , partition need not be fatal .
in combination gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and higher levels of education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the global average for the developing world , down from 11 % in south asian countries , 29 % below east asian and the pacific , and 32 % below in latin america and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , much of africa was unexplored and occupied by an hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was relatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs with no regard for the western-style property rights . likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged for 16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years behind the countries of south asia and 21 years behind the countries of east asia , latin america , and the caribbean .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and mounting concern about food insecurity have been fueling anxiety worldwide . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher proportion of their disposable income on food , they are among the worst affected , raising the risk that years of progress toward poverty reduction could reverse . in the absence of solutions that ease mounting strain on supplies , hunger , and malnutrition , the situation will grow . the seemingly unalterable factors generating such record-rises in food prices , the shift toward higher-level protein diets in many countries , the growing populations , greater use of biofuels , and climate change suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . the possibility that the fed is unable to place food on the table will fills the parents with profound sense of foreboding .
and this is precisely what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of organizations that are more obsessed with abiding by new , burdensome processes than achieving their stated goals . this is no easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . just as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue in a way that inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” like financial-market governance systems and procurement rules , they have become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do whatever they are established to do . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” ” ” ” ” a envisioned community on whose behalf the state behaves . as francis fukuyama pointed out , developments in an able state that is accountable and ruled by law are among the crowning successes of human civilization .
turkey faces a refugee crisis that dwarfs those confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its own territories ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its borders with syria in november . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan claims a long way from a persuasive one . that approach mirrors the fact that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and colossal resources of his office , in order to assert credit for his country ’s restoration of domestic pride , particularly as he attempts to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . turkey faces a refugee crisis that dwarfs any confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and its heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its borders with syria in november . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from compelling .
and , at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , almost 900 leading businessmen from american , european , asian , and african leaders met with new political leadership to chart a course forward . to be sure , intentions and outcomes are just two separate issues , and they should be different from each other . africa has a long track journey ahead , and it has a long road ahead . president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted the american people -- typically the majority of africa 's neglectful , save when they are in deep crisis -- the dramatic changes taking place across the continent . it is on most measures , a few decades , if not a century or longer , behind the advanced economies in the economic organization and income levels .
in the past hundred years , contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe and the cold war may have done just that . the moment one believes , “ better dead than the red ” you get into trouble . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran puts it : “ once man will lose his faculty of indifference that is becoming a potential murderer ; once he transforms his notion into a god of the consequences are incalculable . ” dying in order to save one ’s homeland , family , or country may turn out to be rational . yet martyrdom , however , are both different and dangerous .
if putin is serious about diversifying and reinvigorating russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving his country ’s lives , he will need to attract high-tech technologies and foreign investment , particularly in the west . for that to happen , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . at a time when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for no one . while russia is in no position to establish an alternative to the international system ; but if putin continues to pursue an obsolete , antagonistic foreign policy can undermine the incumbent . that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model that failed once and would fail again .
cambridge -- will the political resurgence of labor unions throw a wrench into the wheels of globalization ? along with its political clout , trade unions are also experiencing a renaissance as well . ’ rising influence is apparent in many recent events : germany ’s chancellorship angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise the minimum wage of their postal staff ; a few american presidential candidates in the us ; and a few american presidential candidates have open up misgivings about trade and immigration ; and china ’s leadership has ’s nascent concerns over labor standards . or will their rising strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by fueling high equality and fairness ? one path or another , trade unions are standing up as the great wildcard in the 2008 and beyond .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity considerably by damping international rivers have embroiled the country in a water dispute with the majority of its neighbors , even north korea . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for offshore dam projects by offering low borrowing rates to other governments . first , chinese firms now dominate the global hydropower-equipment market . sinohydro alone has eclipsed western equipment suppliers such as abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , respectively , claims that they dominate half the us market . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has dipped two key developments .
new york – there are many recurring foreign-policy debates , such as isolationism versus internationalism and unilateralism versus multilateralism . during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the former soviet union , bring down the communist system and replace it with democratic capitalism . others viewed this as overly dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and america ’s opted instead for a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate between the “ “ realists ” and the idealists ’ ” is both intense and long-standing . but no debate is more persistent than that among those who believe that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence the externalities of other states ’ external behavior and those holding that it should shape its inner nature .
she has also recognized that any privileged approach to eu markets will require eu budget contributions , as has been done in norway and switzerland . but , in her florence address , may has promised that british firms something near the current level of access to eu markets . second , a british budget deal would be a powerful tool to establish a “ deep and special partnership ” with europe that may claimed to be its ultimate goal . until last month , may has avoided defining that phrase , owing to the fear of antagonizing her own party ’s hardline europhobes . if britain ’s transition payments have continued near its current level of about € 10 billion ( $ 10 billion ) for the next five or six years for the next five or six years realistically needed to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , it would add up to the same amount .
even if may can strike an exit deal , negotiating and ratifying the sector-by-sector trade deal is impossible in the next two years . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade deal , for example , took seven years to hash out – and nearly scotched by belgium ’s parliament ’s wallonia region . many of the 52 % of britons who voted overwhelmingly for leaving the leave party want to remain in the eu ’s single market , because are all those who voted for it to remain . may has no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit , but she will not have an electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit . many of the 52 % of britons who voted to leave the eu want to remain in the single market , because are all those who voted for remain .
for the first time , there is the lively and smart debate on this issue that lies at the heart of the middle east ’s troubles . the israeli-palestinian issue is crucial for all the obvious reasons . a well-functioning private sector , which creates adequate jobs , and the schools to educate large , youthful populations for today ’s interconnected world , are prerequisites of progress . in fact , open societies are incompatible with closed economies . this is both a matter of both enormously important and well informed discussion .
in his many successful years as sibiu mayor , iohannis , distinguished by a charismatic , shrewd politician to whom the romanians is accustomed , proves a sober , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted that fact ’s salience to the establishment – though the orthodox leaders who backed ponta – quickly adjusted their rhetoric to encourage tolerance and cooperation . that demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to foresee its victory over the more talkative ponta . yet iohannis is very different not only in his political approach ; he ranks evangelical luis rodríguez an in a predominantly orthodox country . the electorate appeared tired of the lingering confrontation between babylsescu and ponta , and , more generally , on the noisy , nasty , and trek that their country ’s ’s political scene had become .
british prime minister david cameron has introduced measuring happiness into national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to support her citizen ’s wellbeing . at the same time , whole societies may be working to advance their own happiness efforts . how countries are governed has an enormous impact on happiness . british prime minister david cameron has introduced measuring happiness on national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to support her citizen ’s well-being . the dalai lama recently helped to launch a series of such courses in london , which was developed with happiness action , an organization to which i found help .
the new global order gave way to the order-less world , in which reliability and predictability gave way to quick shifts in focus and fickle commitments . more recently , there has been america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following the chemical-weapons offensive that left at least 1,400 people dead . all of this raises an essential question : does the u.s. even need an overarching design of its foreign policy ? if the result is to force its foreign policy to become less reliable and predictable – or , worse , the susceptible to a misunderstanding – it certainly does not . israel , for example , is a tiny fraction of this global pattern .
thatcher herself was no enthusiast for credit , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in a credit card . ” most dangerous trends , including the upsurge in global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have speeded up dangerously since 2004 . the 1986 financial services act put an end to pure self-regulation . it is also hard to trace back to the 1980 ’s origins of the credit boom and the proliferation of the exotic and ill-understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis . the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge in global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have speeded up dangerously since onwards .
alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the current crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he does not have an option but to go it alone . indeed , iranian hardliners may be welcoming an israeli strike , and even seeking to provoke it as a means of rallying the iranian populations beyond them . a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences , with the most serious consequences , if not impossible . at the same time , the zone should enforce the economic and political sanction of states that choose to remain outside , and , again , backed by the un security council ’s standing members , impose military sanctions on those attempting to develop wmds . there is a better way to prevent nuclear proliferation and other weapons of weapons of mass destruction in the region : the organization of wmd-free zones , ” built on an incentive system that includes the economic and technical support of countries joining , just as the united nations security council ’s permanent members .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war , and the rest of the country has never been known to have been killed . yet what is to be done – and by whom ? in ignatieff ’s opinion , if syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime is allowed to dominate , its forces will obliterate the remaining sunni rebels – at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood will eventually flow again . the united nations reports on atrocities , internet images of attacks against civilians , and accounts for the agony of refugees are inching our heart . more recently , canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia will veto a united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move .
for americans ( and others ) believing that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant were supposed to convince them otherwise . in the months ahead , one can expect that the region will remain focused on governance and capacity-building issues , human rights , and on how to create economies responding to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better quality of life . it is far too early to judge the historic effect on the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have very little to do with it . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the rising expectations of the public , and their willingness to enter into a peace process takes a back seat to this struggle . now that a raucous regional state is being joined to raucous america ’s electoral season ( where no issue is left out of the political arena ) , the task of assembling those components will become even harder
according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people out of poverty between now and 2030 . in emerging economies , small - and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) account for just as many as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and these numbers are considerably higher when the informal smes comprise . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should encourage small , medium-size companies . london – vulnerable communities are facing the sdgs of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . when sachs builds on its own climate resilience , it can cascading effects in communities around it .
agricultural production accounts for about half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining is also generating gas . indeed , cutting the amount of methane that is cheaper than cutting the amount of carbon that they emit . professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending between $ 14 trillion and $ 30 trillion to reduce methane would generate benefits – from warming ’s 1.4 and three times greater . likewise , we could place a larger focus on cutting blackcarbon , viewed as responsible for just as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of arctic melting . and , because methane emits far shorter-lived gas than co2 , we can avert some of the worst effects of short-term warming through mitigation .
it not only needs to live up to the realities of american power ; it also must account for the american ideal . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students in china took over tiananmen square to demand greater human rights , accepting a symbol resembling the statue of liberty . today , it is not american military power that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of the “ american dream . ” nevertheless , china ’s ’s challenge may prove to be more difficult , if not more so . it not only needs to live up to the realities of american power ; it must also reflect an american ideal .
but , collectively , the eu ’s member states , even without the united kingdom , would represent a power of similar magnitude . a stronger , more unified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with the u.s. and china in most domains , including by “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic goals . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make such a g3 world a reality . first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration at a time when most important decisions within the bloc still require unanimity among its member states . yet european leaders tempted by the prospect of a 27-member states to address two interrelated concerns .
after all , this is how the us administration has handled canada and mexico . whereas the us has , on average , far fewer tariff protections than europe , the difference is minor ( europe ’s no-deal tariff averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for the us ) . both countries maintain relatively open economies , with stronger protections in specific industries . trump has temporarily exempted the two tariff countries , but now expects concessions from the us administration ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement . the us , after all , has been doing business with canada and mexico .
proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most fundamental feature of an individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable . we need not believe in a genetic determinism to find that argument compelling . how can the commercial enterprise not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their fee for a diagnostic test that might be fair enough , but also make it impossible for any other firm to offer me a similar test unless those firms pay it a license fee ? do n’t i somehow have the rights of controlling one ’s own body ? do n’t i somehow have a history of doing so ?
human beings are no exception to this respect , but they are not the exception to the cause . instead , they have argued that we should end up demanding paid sexual ” sex ” – but , without explaining how this will happen . in the species that reproduce sexually active women , sexual lives are , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest – and most pervasive – aspirations . there has also been opposition from some feminist organizations that accused amnesty of protecting “ “ “ pimps ” and johns rights . for that reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against traffic in women applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization .
for a wide range of goods , automation means that production locations and outsourcing decisions no longer depend primarily on the cost of labor . yet , since the great recession of the great recession , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . as a result , many firms are simplifying and shoring up their supply chains . propelled by demand and outsourcing from the advanced economies , emerging markets have won an increasing share of soaring trade in goods ; by 2014 , they account for more than half of all global trade flows . at the same time , however , deeper structural shifts have also played a role .
what it does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan – might undercut its basing strategy . indeed , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine , with “ talks on withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether us security situation warrants or do not ” ” it . yet there is strong bipartisan support within the us for retaining its military base in afghanistan as a means of projecting hard power there , with the increasingly charged confrontation between america and russia over ukraine having boosted that support considerably . the us evidently believes that an ongoing us military presence in afghanistan is in its own interests . indeed , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice has explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ “ talks on withdrawal ” from afghanistan , whether us security situation warrants it or not ” ”
such infantile ploys became all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused to publish polish constitutional court rulings , as if that makes them legally non-non-binding . indeed , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy , by refusing to sign off on to the summit ’s official track record , as if that would render the outcome inconsequential for poland . indeed , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy , by refusing to sign off on to the summit ’s formal track record , as if that would render the outcome inconsequential for poland . in a sign of what is to come , poland ’s far-right foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres after a summit that the eu pursued “ a double-digit standard & deceptions . ” the government no doubt paralyzed the court , undermining the rule of law in poland .
this will require massive investments in new technologies and resources , rather than the fight to finish ” over middle east oil . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – from food production , wind power , solar air power , solar air pollution , solar panels – but opportunities for vastly increased use of inexpensive , universally available , and environmentally friendly solar power are enormous . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting technologies , and safe , reliable nuclear power . solar radiation accounts for about 10,000 times the amount of us currently used in energy use . we tap into the fact that solar power in many fundamental ways – including food production , wind power , solar air power , solar air pollution , solar-thermal power plants , and the growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources .
in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if one encounters pictures of chairman mao , ” ai does not make it with anyone anyhow ” ” ” ” ” ” ai makes it “ anyhow . in the late 1980 ’s , japan ’s spectacular performance not only made the japanese rich , but also boosted the country ’s soft power . asia ’s emergence as a resurgence began with japan ’s economic success . there was a short period of political infatuation between some westerners during the 1960 ’s with nehru ’s jackets and maoist revolutions .
likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should be able to nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small , and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) – that is , to be sure – that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . but , with austerity coming under fire and eu countries seeking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the shape of the budget , ensure that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet approaches , lower energy costs , and more efficient transportation linkages . but , with austerity coming under fire and eu countries seeking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the shape of the budget , ensure that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the proposed budget abandon funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including by expanding high-speed broadband internet networks to rural areas and development in transportation and energy infrastructure .
back in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the un human rights commission in geneva in order to look to the ccp ’s ’s ’s ’s long track record of abuses . in response , china responded by canceling the danish trade mission , which it had promised in july 2015 . france got the message , and the french were soon halted by the promotion of human rights resolutions directed at china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will become even more subdued . the french were then rewarded with some kind of lucrative deals in china .
and it brings people together to work together to provide universal health coverage , and to ensure everyone ’s right to health . in the sdg framework , separate gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . it encompasses research and global public goods like vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . the global agenda in this field determines the norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevent illness , and administer care . in the sdg framework , separate gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes .
still , just the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . for example , studies of the us courts with multiple justices indicate that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is on the bench and substantially more willing when the other woman adds up . in other words , women bring in a fresh perspective , heard clearly only when a critical mass of them is present in any institution . yet just the presence of a plurality of women also has an impact . “ “ “ each of us , ” ” noted sandra day o’connor , the first female member of the american supreme court , who is renowned for not wanting to be perceived as an underneath female ” justice , “ “ “ “ “ brings to our job , ” whatever it may be , our lifetime of experience and our values . ”
but selecting an action for the greater good does not absolve us from moral culpability . ultimately , authoritarian leaders can not get away with the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds , however , that this gets one ’s hands dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ”
with the new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen , owing to saudi financial support , it is small to wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . yet , in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis were expelled , owing to the perception that they were perceived as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the country ’s first gulf war . since then , the yemeni labor party has been banned from saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed young yemeni men have often become subject to yet another saudi policy gone awry , its propagation of the sunni wahhabi form of islam . yet yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies .
independently , honjo and his colleagues identify yet another protein that had performed a similar function . these fundamental studies have now given rise to the development of new , powerful , anti-cancer immunotherapies . but there is still a lot to be learned from the fact that we have learned about it . for some patients with certain cancers , immunotherapies have been revolutionary in nature , enabling those who were on the brink of death to live healthy lives with no detectable traces of illness . yet the immunotherapies revolution continues to be in its infancy .
the good news is that , if any place has proved capable of innovation , it is silicon valley . but it has followed through on the macro level , and on issues elsewhere in the economy without examining them . the only route to development is through adaptation to new environmental pressures , and now of silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavior , that it faces a lot of challenges . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start by applying their skill in innovations – and with their pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves . unless it changes , it will become overleveraged .
establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to forge a positive feedback loop . when farmers are confident that their goats can not be stolen and are able to sell them at a decent price , they are better equipped to invest in improving their productive system . here , too , a platform of innovation helps . when farmers become confident in their goats can not be stolen and can sell them at a decent price , they are better equipped to invest in improving their productive system . for starters , we trained farmers to upgrade their soil by expanding legume crops , residues that can use as goat fodder .
looking ahead , policymakers and firms should keep five imperatives in mind . but , to lower-skilled workers , the transition that is underway today could prove just as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and firms should keep five imperatives in mind . in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for almost 50 years , before picking up once again . with fears of rising inequality already rising , governments will need to rethink policies to deliver incomes and the job-transition support of the displaced workers .
at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remains under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and failure to implement a lot of decision . fortunately , however , mindsets are starting to shift the direction of the shift . to reinvigorate the au , they have tasked rwandan president paul kagame with guiding a process in which all have been deeply engaged . that is largely an issue of thinking , not means it . fewer than three years later , a package of reform recommendations produced by kagame and the pan-african commission of practitioners that it nominated – through an inclusive consultative process – includes african leaders and other stakeholders .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , concerns the bond of new york city , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s holdings of international reserves . both countries had floating exchange rates , which meant that their central banks were unwilling to intervene in a currency market through their purchases and sale of reserves . suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s ’s star central banker , concerns the bond in new york , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s holdings of international reserves . more fundamentally , why are the us thinking of reserves very different from thinking about other assets on its national balance sheets ? suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , concerns the bond in new york city , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s holdings of international reserves .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is turning india into an tech powerhouse , setting the stage for the digital future . in france , the us government has been investing in an extensive national digital plan , which is projected to generate 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and to contribute $ 101 trillion in gdp over the next decade . whereas other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind . the consequences are already beginning to show : according to the bloomberg innovation index ’s 2016 bloomberg innovation index , america is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having fallen two spots since 2015 . whereas other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind .
in georgia , for example , political parties , which comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral lists , receive some 30 % of the supplement from the country ’s gdp . beyond funding constraints , women are facing high levels of social and cultural barriers to political participation . above all , more care responsibilities , augmented by the public ’s perceptions of a woman ’s role , severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office . likewise , in iran , political parties are losing 50 % of their gdp if their candidate pool comprises fewer than 30 % of either gender . likewise , in iran , political parties are losing 50 % of their state funding , as long as their candidate pool comprises fewer than 30 % of either gender .
moreover , as is so often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to push for an agreement . that might well turn out to be true if iran were to be a full-fledged democracy , genuinely responsible people ’s will . but there is scant evidence suggesting that the sanctions did anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing serves better through a nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions imposed by iran would seem to have helped the latter , rather than the last .
because we are not yet aware of which innovations will be the most critical area in decarbonizing the economy , investment needs to be assigned to a broad range of choices . as with information technology revolutions , clean-energy advances will require engaging both the public and the private sector alike . at the same time , patient finance must be made available to help companies minimize the insecurity and bridge the so-called “ “ death valley ” of death ” between basic research and commercialization . one hopes that the paris agreement is changing this way . the bec ’s argument is that an inclusive new model will involve public-private partnerships among governments , research institutions , and investors ” shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship .
moreover , we are planning to provide up to 90 % of our household budget , representing close to 7 % of gdp , in educating our children and young people . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children – particularly girls and those from distant backgrounds – access to quality education . but these challenges will not be tackled , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . even so , senegal is fighting to meet all of the costs of strengthening its education system . in 2017 , the us invested 25 % of its household budget , representing close to 7 % of gdp , in educating our children and young people .
europe ’s defense industries will be unable to make any progress without a well-functioning market , open , transparent , and equal opportunity for all of europe ’s supplier states . a critical component in europe ’s coordinating and operating closely is the organization of europe ’s defense agency . advances in the defense-industry lead to significant positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development , that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and the future of competitiveness . the goal must be to foster european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , to lift europe to the forefront of global security . as member states advance along this path , propelled by technology and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues to eliminate unnecessary spending and optimize resource usage .
it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark population , given the fact that the shark ’s economic value plummets when they are killed . a study by the australian marine institute finds that palau ’s ’s ’s ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . in southern guangzhou , the heart of china ’s shark-fin business city , vendors reported a 82 % drop in sales over the past two years . in southern guangzhou , the center for china ’s shark-fin business business , vendors reported a 82 % drop in sales over the past two years . for example , china banned the shark-fin soup , a traditional delicacy , at official government dinners , and functions – a move that contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales from last december to april .
because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , and the partition of territories between themselves . to accomplish this with the minimal fuss that it muzzled the printing press and the electronic media . tudjman ’s excuse was that croatia needed to concentrate power on its struggle against serbian aggression . to accomplish this with the minimal fuss that it muzzled the printing press and the electronic media . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , and the partition of territories between themselves .
the current proposed arrangements would authorize the chinese government to veto any candidate it does n’t like , prompting criticism that what is on offer is an iranian-style election : “ you can vote for anyone to choose . ” the hong kong government could call for changes to the degree of openness and fairness of which its chief executive is elected without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . since 1997 , 55-61 % of the electorate cast a vote on democratic candidates in the legislative council ’s elections . under the basic law , the electoral committees should be “ broadly representative ” ” ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . its membership is elected with just 7 % of hong kong ’s voters , and its voting procedures seek to block any candidate who can harbor democratic sympathies .
but , in gaza strip , local elections soon afterward , the radical islamists who use terrorism won seven out seven out of ten municipal councils . in fact , the case for this is not so much proven . january ’s palestinian elections were won by a relatively moderate leader , owing to the fact that the ruling fatah movement and the islamists boycotted the elections . reformers insist that overwhelming majorities will encourage moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic in order to compete for power and govern . in promoting democracy , liberals dismiss the argument that today ’s rulers use the first free elections would be the last thing to do , because islamists win and establish theocratic regimes .
increasingly , industries are implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , there will be additional opportunities for improvement . this is the global segment of the world ’s annual meeting of a growing global need . a shakeout in the clean-tech sector has been hard hit ; but so , too , it has been typical of emerging technology , and , by weeding out weaker players , has made the sector more robust . there is little room to doubt that the clean-tech sector can expect many sunny days ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom surrounding the world in 2008 led many to wonder whether the seeming prosperity that precedes it is real . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , brazil , russia , and the united states , the number of billionaires has skyrocketed . more broadly , the top 1 % of the us population prospered . yet the gap between the rich and the poor has widened and , at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and the middle-class stagnated.ampnbsp ; no wonder now , that many are skeptical of the taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , or even automakers . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of billionaires has skyrocketed .
america ’s securities and exchange commission , for one , are already debating these issues , because it analyzes options for responding to investor and business needs concerning esg data . more recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and chairman of the g20 ’s financial stability council , and michael bloomberg , a former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lp , have issued an announcement on the market ’s data on the climate . yet , given the magnitude of the challenge , it is also important to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of such efforts with appropriate standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . in fact , global awareness of the topic has been growing – and remains – in many ways . their core goals include enabling companies and organizations to establish sustainability targets and core performance indicators ; tracking , preparing , and publicizing comparative data that measure their economic and esg performance ; and integrating sustainable production and consumption practices into company business strategies and models .
this month , the g20 summit , and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro , is pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . success at los cabos will depend on the g-20 ’s leaders to galvanize the same level of collective action , the concerted action that has enabled them to curb global recession in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis . but the outcomes that the world needs are – – viable financing options and frameworks to encourage economic transformation , just as integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance can not be achieved without the political will . specifically , small landholders need new tools that enable them to raise productivity while establishing more sustainable methods of production . pursuing thriving , inclusive economies must be coupled with efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food insecurity .
new york – the global financial markets of 2008 have been experiencing their worst crises since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others had been purchased on a cheap basis , or survived only after major bail-outs . global stock markets plummeted by over 50 % ; interest-rate spreads have skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch has emerged ; and many emerging-market economies are teetering on the international monetary fund for assistance . so , what lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst behind , or ahead , in the us ? is the worst behind the us , or ahead of the us ?
we have responded more acutely to images of starving children than to reporting about improving nutrition levels across africa . and it takes just a minute on the twitter or cable news to certify an old adage : when it bleeds , it results . and , of course , we are prone to remembering those horrible images much longer . the good news is n’t news ; media outlets often mutter . add to that the second-psychological bias bias neuroscientists debate : because our species have evolved to fend off risk , we tend to be more sensitive to the bad news .
nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information , and the right to process it . this thirst for unbiased information emphasizes the dramatic change that the internet has brought into china ’s political landscape . china ’s ’s government has apparently begun to appreciate the constraints of cover-ups and stonewalling and , perhaps , the merits of allowing some room for free speech . a “ virtual ” civil society , ” is at stake . insightful bloggers are attracting far more clicks than do official mouthpieces .
if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect it to reduce china ’s trade surplus with the us . but that need not be the case , either . annual import expo – which will be a component of china ’s overall import promotion strategy – has attracted thousands of firms worldwide , with the promise of major orders from chinese firms , including state-owned firms , which have tasked with making the expo a success . new york city , too , often dedicate public money to promoting exports of its own goods and services . yet devoting resources to encourage us imports , as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which it just opened in shanghai – is indeed precious .
it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . london – the university of norman stone who died in june – always insisted that history ’s students learn foreign languages . language gives access to humans ’s culture and culture to its history . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . london – the historian norman stone ’s death in june – always insisted on the teaching of history by foreign languages .
more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins about bombast and hostage takeovers and “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on that prospect . the first nagging question is this : will an election in fact come next january ? prime minister sayyylawi assures a world that will be , and president bush echoes his words . the probability that the iraqi elections will take place this coming january will have to be less than 50 % , and one can be sure that these will not be free and fair elections throughout the country as a whole . while that scenario is simple , reality is not .
last week , the us congress unveiled legislation to compel facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who purchase online advertising , thereby closing the loophole that russia has exploited during the elections . but making amends by technical fixes and public promises to make better corporate citizens solve only the most publicized problem . atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election last anniversary , the question of how trump has won still commands attention – is that russia has a role to move increasingly toward the center stage . each new epithets in investigating russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign exposes the vulnerability of america ’s democratic process to a sharper focus . the tougher challenge will be stronger institutions that are vitally important to the functioning of democracy , in particular , civics education and local journalism .
but , while import restrictions may ease the pain of some manufacturing districts in the us , they wo n’t stop companies from relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest . nor will they shield workers from technological change . in america ’s presidential campaign , trade protection in the us is fashionable once again . yet , if the ends are clear , policymakers are often clueless about the means . and they wo n’t recreate yesterday ’s developmental patterns .
algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder to this , and western governments are not looking for a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to restart . gaining “ stuck in the transition ” is a third potential scenario , with libya remaining in a “ greenpeace zone ” neither fully-fledged democracy nor dictatorship , but rather than a semi-free one . when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented immigrants , two critical issues on europe ’s part – arab military dictators – have an inglorious track record . algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , and western governments are not looking for a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats that produces violent theocrats and refugees to restart . but the four decades of military/dictatorship may be enough for libyans , a majority of whom never truly benefit from their country ’s wealth or potential .
third , whereas muslims might have been able to testify against anyone , christian and jews were able to testify only against another non-muslim . but , obviously , if they had been engaged in a case against a muslim , that was to be handled in an islamic court . first , judges ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ training predisposed training was to give them the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslims . third , whereas muslims might have been able to testify against anyone , christian and jews were able to testify only against another non-muslim . third , whereas muslims might have been able to testify against anyone , christian and jews were able to testify only against another non-muslim .
some argue that the real point is the risk of attacks and destruction that might arise if weapons of mass destruction are deployed . but there is no way to make an objective assessment of fear , and , even if that might happen , using a cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc on the global system of national sovereignty and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that , if israel had the right to attack an osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona . the better way to make self-defense a sense is to invoke two principles that underlie the legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law . they employ something like a cost/benefit analysis based on a subjective sense of danger .
and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . with those challenges in mind , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . most economies are becoming less equitable , with the widening gaps between the very rich and the poor . the world ’s governments have asked the un secretary-general to coordinate preparations for those goals by the end of 2015 to ensure a seamless transition away from the un ’s millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire that year . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place at the end of 9/11 .
an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard able to visualize and generate thriving global demand for a product or service – just as spain ’s ’s ’s ’s amancio ortega has done with zara – is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments look to their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . today , starbucks employs about 182,000 people worldwide , compared to $ 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined . they should encourage and encourage job creators and problem startups , turning development aid into investment . it is time for diplomats to do the same .
political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary . while both polish and hungarian communist parties have experienced internal liberalization , which has granted relatively large semi-official activity zones outside of communist control , slovakia after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 has become a rigid neo-stalinist regime . likewise , the situation in any central european country is influenced by experience , which is rooted in both history and traditions . when communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland ’s communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into a credible democratic-left party that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . whereas both polish and hungarian communist parties have experienced internal liberalization , which has allowed the relatively high degree of formal activity zones outside of communist control , slovakia after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 has become a rigid neo-stalinist regime .
these limits on state-level budget deficits are a logical implication of america ’s inability to generate money in order to fill the fiscal gap . a third important difference is the assumption that all american states are obliged by their constitutions to balance their annual operating budgets . whereas the “ rainy day ” of funds that are accumulating in a boom years are being used to deal with temporary revenues shortfalls , the states ’ ’ “ strong ” budget deficits are reduced to capital projects such as roads and schools . the eu ’s maastricht treaty explicitly reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member countries , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ ’ countries in ways that are willing and able to do business among the people in various states . while the “ rainy day ” funds , which are accumulating in boom years , are being used to deal with temporary revenue-shortfall , the states ’ “ superstrong ” borrowing tax cuts are limited to capital projects such as roads and schools .
globalization proceeded at an accelerating pace through much of the past century , and at an especially accelerating pace during its past two decades . yet the overwhelming body of evidence indicates that technological change is an even bigger driver in global wage patterns than it does from trade . i have little doubt that , sometime later this century , one gets to buy up university professors – perhaps with holographic images – as easily as one can buy pockets kasparov of a computer today . so , too , let us go back to india and china . i certainly do n’t feel as secure as an economics professor !
some empirical studies of cross-country data find net benefits from environmental degradation indicators like the local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided that countries have effective national governance institutions , trade , and growth gives them the resources to clean up their air . specialization within each country enables people to acquire more of what they want , which , particularly at higher levels of income , involves cleaner air and water . when trade brings down costs , it can benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods . so , does trade globalization , balance , better , or environmental indicators ?
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” refers to efforts to understand what took place at the commanding heights of the former soviet union – indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . great significance was read into who signed an official paper or who stood where atop where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square , when reviewing the military parades . kremlinologists have been monitoring ( in whatever way may be ) , who was down , and who has been down among the core soviet leadership . consider what has happened on december 17 , when it took office . tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” – referred to its efforts to understand what took place at the commanding heights of the former soviet union , indeed behind the entire iron curtain .
even if there are obvious recognition of massive spillovers , it is hard to see how that exercise would solve a fundamental problem behind the interwar currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . that initiative is destined to go bankrupt , as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise , or the g-20 ’s peer reviews of recent history . in a desperate , last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing an “ spill-over ” news ” of several systemically important economies to run on the sidelines of its country ( article iv ) consultations . they surely have a right to self‑defense , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially lucrative option when capital flows are indeed temporary ) , imposing capital controls or other currency-related macro-prudential policies targeting countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing . so , what should the latin american economies do ?
east asian governments then knew that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns , but were powerless to resist . if china let its currency float again , it could depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . the imf had the money to which it needed it . countries were admonished : avoid trade deficits and build up reserves because they are key frontline defenses . east asian governments followed that advice and , for a good cause , they saw the consequences of shortages .
more recently , some us states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to place a carbon price , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan . welfare-to-work schemes in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton and obamacare , and obamacare is based on the massachusetts us health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a diverse set of energy policies – – from 2000 to 2014 , enacting a broad range of energy policies – – from 2000 to 2014 , enacting a broad range of energy policies – – – – from 2000 to 2014 , from enacting a broad range of us energy policies , from 33 states to the us while expanding their economies . half of all us states have now legalized marijuana in some form , with eight embracing full-time-legalization targets . three states have implemented laws offering a pay-as-you-go ( republican governor mitt romney ) , with eight
cambridge – in 2010 , geoffrey west , together with the researchers ’ team , discovered that a few socioeconomic measures – both positive and adverse – are increasing at the size of the local population . in a sense , this is not a challenging phenomenon to explain ; the metropolises like the new yorkers like the new yorkers , with their highly multicultural populations , supranational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals – are rife with opportunity . but the impact on big cities runs deeper than economic or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally alter people ’s lives – and even those of the people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey west , together with the researchers team , discovered that a few socioeconomic measures – both positive and negative – increases with the size of the local population . in other words , larger cities , higher levels of average wages , levels of productivity , number of individual patents , crime rates , prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv .
as if all of this were n’t bad enough to decide america , the clincher may well have been india ’s desire to avoid another round of procurement controversy at a time when corruption allegations beset it by corruption beset by all parties . ( an eventual winner is likely to be required to enter into a joint-manufacturing arrangement with india that american firms would not do . ) a decision made on technical grounds , many of them felt , would have been easier to defend themselves than one based on political considerations . at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor shopping mall , made possible by an historic deal brokered by the bush administration , had america ’s insistence on waiving exemptions from supplier accountability in case of accident , some regard india as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that a friendship with india helps america , too . ( an eventual winner of the offer is likely to be required to enter into a joint-manufacturing arrangement with india that american companies would not do . )
as a result , the large supranational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for the fiscal bailouts to fail ) . even stronger banks are being pressured to increase their capital buffers ’ holdings . in the case of banks that require sovereign rescues , european competition rules require divestment and downsizing . institutions like the royal bank of scotland – which , for a time in 2009 , spearheaded the list of the world ’s largest international banks – are pruned by the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s annual competitive directorate general . in most cases , that means continuing to cut back on lending , aggravating the impact on the financial crisis on the rest of the economy .
trump has shot back that america ’s military is “ locked and loaded ” game . and , indeed , since this cut-off exchange of rhetorical fire has unfolded , america has reportedly been preparing to restart military options for a striking north korea . more ominous , according to a confidential american intelligence report , north korea has accomplished its capability to miniaturize its nuclear warheads and perhaps have as many as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim , and trump has been ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s game of chicken . immediately , north koreans have done just that , threatening to carry out a “ enveloping ” enveloping ” ” ” ” strike on american soil territory .
the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others , given the public goods that societies provide . but do n’t hold your breath waiting for them to agree . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes – which have benefited the most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor – can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining top wages , rather than moral considerations , in order to be sustainable . there are two conclusions that can be drawn from all this .
after all , it is exceedingly inconvenient to have in greece , which is so opposed to the kinds of policies that have done so much to exacerbate inequality in so many advanced countries and that are so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth . when sweden did , swedes said , “ no . ” they understood that unemployment would skyrocket if a country ’s ’s ’s monetary policies were established by a central banker who concentrated single-mindedly on low inflation ( and also lack sufficient attention to financial stability ) . and , to be sure , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone ’s institutionalized those relationships with the eu , is the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s left-wing government . the economy would suffer because the underlying european economic model was predicated on the power relationships that disadvantaged workers .
but his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his drive to centralize power in the hands of the brotherhood , and position himself beyond the review of egypt ’s secular judiciary , turned out to be his denouement . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first directly elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets , triggering a military coup that ousted him . durham – and his lack of vision in the face of an economic meltdown – would have been sufficient to diminish the support of his rule . durham – and his lack of vision in the face of an economic meltdown – would have been sufficient to diminish his rule ’s support . but it is too soon to write political islam off as an able participant , even the leader of a pluralist democracy .
embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , which means that they have the capacity to evolve into any kind of human tissue . the following day , british researchers at newcastle university reported that they had successfully produced the cloned human embryo using donated eggs and the genetic material of their stem cell phones . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , which means that they have the capacity to evolve into any types of human tissue . this carries great promise , particularly for sufferers from spinal cord injuries and disease . on may 19 , a team of korean researchers published in a journal science the findings of the research that , for the first time , isolated human embryonic stem cell lines are explicitly tailored to match the dna of male and female patients of a variety of ages .
in recent decades , many of the world ’s largest companies took advantage of new technology to reduce the number of employee layers , from top executives to factory workers , thereby lowering costs and boosting efficiency . such action would boost not only fiscal sustainability , with the added revenues able to total 2 % of gdp , but also improve the effectiveness of overall resource allocation . finally , china can lower government expenditure ( over the medium term ) by making it more efficient than 30 % of gdp . such action would not only boost fiscal sustainability , with the additional revenues able to total 2 % of gdp , but also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . by contrast , china ’s government , on the other hand , has retained the same six-layer administrative structure – beginning with the central government – to move through the provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages – since the establishment of the people ’s republic 70 years ago .
indeed , the risks facing a world free of nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number – are tremendous . when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened in the aftermath of russia ’s political bankruptcy of the 1990 ’s , nato , the defensive union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression toward yugoslavia , was undertaken . yet it worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and cautious . now that russia has restored its capability , such a move would have been unthinkable . indeed , the risks facing a world free of nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number – are tremendous .
as the tragedy unfolded , however , researchers gained a greater understanding of the disease . the prions , it seems , to defy all the conventional wisdom , survivors of pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration of $ 340 ° c in just four hours – the treatments that are routinely and reliably used to deactivate all the known viruses and bacterium . the prions , moreover , lack the own genes of their own species . the prion gene is provided by an infected individual , in which it resides in an innocuous state . the infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s ’s machinery , reprogramed it in the willing replication executioner .
daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony symphony orchestra partly owing to his opposition to the fundraising demands that have been met with him . but us experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra music of orchestra need not be bad news for the artistic side of the job . indeed , performing arts advocates in europe point to the american case , where , among other things , the music directors of even the us are now expected to take full participation in fundraising activities , and to be active in the local community on an orchestration of an orchestration . likewise , they worry about , too , will not happen in europe . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because of its opposition to fundraising demands .
this would hurt and weaken saddam , and establish unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . more broadly , the council is accepting the possibility of mounting punitive air strikes – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , republican watch , and other armed-force targets . the council could also declare that any fresh aggression , or any use , threat , or transfers of wmd would trigger saddam ’s removal and pursue as an international war like slobodan milosevic . it would be strange to uphold the council ’s authority by means that have failed to obtain its approval . nor should we forswear that possibility , but we ought to consider others , not least because the us security council – whose backing will be politically , if not legitimate – may never advocate an invasion .
some of the un inspectors that he knew well , had dined with them on collegial terms during their visits to vienna . soon afterwards , un inspectors went back to tarmiya . this would have lying to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to his cronies on a inspection team . this time around the world , dr. ahmed , an iraqi counterpart in iraq , realized that the games had been up . this time around , they recognized precisely what enormous magnets had been for them : the production of nuclear materials .
in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would rise sharply , and then fall – within a pattern that is inverted u ” ” ” ” or bell – as countries have been undergoing economic development . but , at the same time , china ’s dizzying rise has dispelled three leading myths of the impact on economic growth . after all , china today is one of the world ’s most unequal countries . given the pace of economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes that claim more powerfully than anything else . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness .
pakistan hosted free and fair elections between 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold another by the end of 2012 or early 2013 . it also must entail the development of robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and granting citizens institutional resources to settle disputes . to be sure , democracy always involves more than periodically holding free and fair elections . pakistan has held one more step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . had the supreme court not deposed gilani , it would have been the first prime minister to finalize his full term .
that , 20 years after this epochal event , remains worldwide , around cuba makes that anniversary poignant . yet , regardless of this ignorance and its own economic interests , the eu should insist on releasing political prisoner and using all international institutions to bring pressure on the cuban government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights . indeed , this year marks the 20th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe in two . on the other hand , cuba ’s government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalize the demands of a society-wide dialogue . to be sure , the tourists that crowd cuba ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s two ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s two ’s beaches are not being realized .
but we are genuine , with the thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrating for the peace process . that is what the us junta wants to think about the world . brigadier general kyaw hsan , the army ’s high representative , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that street marchers are “ bogus monks . ” some have said that the uprising in burma is ending . yet we are genuine , with the thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrating for peace .
yet , though morality has always been at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we now take for granted never before have come to light . for example , although plato opposed greeks ’ enslavement , for example , he – like every other ancient greek – condoned enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) . yet , though morality has always been at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we now take for granted never before have come to light . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” means assuming the responsibilities of a moral reformer . yet plato probably would have most marveled at the world ’s collective moral advance .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level societal divisions that have emerged as a result of conflict , particularly in violence hubs . here , both local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . this hardly comes as a surprise : after all , the massive inequities that characterized rural colombia ’s emergence as the only economic issue that was addressed in the context of a peace treaty . such an effort must be underpinned by progress on another front : rural development , which is the only economic issue that has been addressed in the peace treaty . here , both local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful .
roughly 5.5 million europeans , under the age of 25 , are jobless . moreover , more than 30 % of job seekers under the age of 25 have been jobless for over 12 months , and their chances of job seekers remain low . the youth unemployment rate exceeds 25 % in 13 european countries , compared to about 30 % in italy , spain , latvia , slovakia , hungary , slovakia , and over 55 % in greece and spain . roughly 5.5 million europeans , under the age of 25 , are jobless . the glbrug , switzerland , which has been soaring youth unemployment , particularly in europe , is making headlines worldwide .
as a result , developing countries are concerned that efforts to introduce an `` competition '' `` competition '' within trade talks will only make life more difficult . yet america 's supreme court sets out standards so high for american firms to find guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . indeed , if standards for domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps most firms within the u.s. would be guilty of dumping . in the us , foreign producers are charged with `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic manufacturers do . the us trade negotiators are not even debating eliminating this twin standard .
if it does , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger an era of sluggish growth and financial fragility . facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . the libra project is a dangerous one like leo , and will require government regulation to stay it out of cancer . but libra ’s advantages seem as slippery as a pisces . for emerging economies , that would mean being cured of dollarization simply to catch an even worse case of libraization .
the added costs were not all that large ( roughly $ 0.30 per gallon ) ; but the fuel price in france was already among the highest in europe ( about $ 7 per gallon , including the existing tax ) . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in the developing world , even though specific dynamics depend on a wide range of factors . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in the developing world , even though particular dynamics depend on several factors . the immediate cause of the protests has been a new kind of fuel tax . for starters , rising inequality has become less likely to be both politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth eu ( think at 5-7 % annual pace ) than at a low – or no-growth environment where per subset ’s incomes and opportunities are either stagnant or falling .
from alexander great to stalin the brutal , variants of that strategy were applied to keeping nations in thrall to the will of an emperor . in the run-up to the euphoric mass street protests in kyiv , russian president asif ali zardari has since said that he can work with whatever ukraine ’s people choose . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent elections , however , putin has apparently unveiled in the world of his own neo-imperialist designs . we now see this strategy at work as president vladimir putin seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over lands treated as “ lost ” ” ” ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . to divide the people to conquer them is the immoral strategy that endured throughout the recorded history .
in any case , an active ingredient of the trump doctrine amounts to burden-sharing . skidelsky interprets this narrowly , focusing on america ’s nato allies ’ need to increase their defense spending . the us consistently runs both its fiscal deficit , with its total spending ( of which defense accounted for 14.8 % of gdp in 2017 ) well above its income and a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net us debt to the rest of the world – currently at 40 % of gdp – will double in just under 24 years . skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on america ’s nato allies ’ need to increase their defense spending .
consider , for example , how recent innovations are threatening the export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled many countries ’ development over the last few decades . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” robots , and other nonhuman tools , companies were able to shift their production sites closer to their closing markets . yet , for firms that took the opportunity to reduce costs by shifting production to the developing world , there has always been a trade-off : offshore manufacturing implies a limited capacity to respond quickly to changing consumer-demand shifts . now , technologies may be offering the next option , too . consider , for example , how recent innovations are threatening the export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled many countries ’ development in recent decades .
each season , it breaks down at least one slice of the furniture age when its team is losing . it has altered its furniture , at least twice since it married off four years ago . for instance , joyce , my former workmate , has a husband who is diehard of a united fan of diehard manchester . couches are being stained by beer , and have kicked as cheers on its favorite teams . even spacex men watching the play at home have host other issues to grapple with .
that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in our understanding of homicidal monsters as another . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against another – ethnic or religious minorities who demonize and victimized – deleuze , and guattari extended the notion of an otherness to vampire . indeed , has any monster yet to be seen as a potential conveyor of a revolutionary idea ? the notion that a murderous monster can symbolize a protester or outcast , and therefore deserve sympathy , originated with french philosophers gildeleuze and pierre-félix guattari . increasingly , such protagonists have become the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself .
in march , al gore ’s science advisor and a prominent climate researcher , jean hansen , proclaimed that when dealing with global warming , an “ democratic process ” does not work . but closing the debate simply implies the disappearance of reason from public policies . copenhagen – which debates about global warming – is marked by a growing desire to stamp out impure ” thinking , a point of questioning the value of the democratic debate . though science has demonstrated that co2 from fossil fuels heats up around the planet , policymakers have been reluctant to follow through on their advice , and to stop the spread of coal-fired electricity stations . hansen argues that , “ “ “ the first actions ” should be taken by humans .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . the rise of women mps has led not only to increases in female cabinet members , but also to a wide range of policies and institutional improvements aimed specifically at women . according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , the election of the election pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked 121st-ranked japan . a key reason for the rise of female mps has been the establishment of a quota system based on the fact that south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their female candidates are women . and , though south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu states ’ most recent rankings , the fall reflects the subsequent growth in the share of female legislators in other countries .
for bingham , the law needs to be accessible and – insofar as it can be – intelligible , unambiguous , and predictable – for the law . everyone should be governed by legislation , insulated from personal discretionary powers by those in power , and by legal disputes , without any prohibitive cost or inordinate delay . moreover , state power should be exercised reasonably well , in the context of good faith , and , for the purposes it has been granted , an independent judiciary and court review of legislation that ensures that the government is not beyond its jurisdiction . courts and other official adjudicative bodies should offer fair due process . there should be equality before the law , combined with adequate protections for fundamental human rights .
it is the extreme right that benefited the most from centrists . in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , was revitalized under marine le pen . in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , was revitalized under marine le pen . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party ( ukip ) capitalized on the resentment surrounding eurozone bailouts to finish a close third in april ’s snap general election . likewise , the backlash has been confined by eurozone members .
on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both exports and imports . yet , here , the hungarian tail is wagging on the german dog . german firms are making huge amounts of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which together account for germany ’s largest trade partner . to be sure , the fourth factor is german business interests . german firms are making huge amounts of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which together account for germany ’s largest trade partner .
brussels – a new controversy has surfaced between the european union and several of its major trade partners since the eu ’s decision to include within its co2 emission-control scheme , all flight to and from within its own territory , including the transcontinental flight . in response , chinese airlines delayed orders to purchase european aircraft . ceos from the us and other european union airlines flight have urged european leaders to step in . in addition , chinese airlines will have to acquire emissions permits for their flights from co2 emissions . in addition , china and the united states are outraged at this point . the us and europe are particularly outraged by china and the united states .
i doubt that other european countries would permit britain to operate like some offshore center near the edge of europe , free of european responsibilities , but to participate fully in its opportunities . yes , special arrangements may be negotiated , but each has to be negotiated individually . when us governments looked closely at the risks of london as a financial center from being outside europe , we concluded that there is no compelling case for doing so . and , for the record , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its bargaining power – despite being a member . yet we have never been able to doubt that being outside europe is altogether different .
it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries , as well as the persistence of communicable , maternal , maternal , maternal , and nutritional deficiencies in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates , and spur action to improve health , should it provide more detailed breakdowns on data . estimates of local disease burdens will be vital to combat afflictions like ebola , check the rising toll on non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting the un ’s sustainable development goals , which cover maternal and infant health in sub-saharan africa . policymakers are accountable , first and foremost , to their constituents , whose unique needs they need to satisfy them . to help decision-makers make a better use of their own data , the institute for health metrics and assessment that i am leading creates geospatial maps with groundbreaking levels of resolution .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would need to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would need to rise to more than 20 % , relative to the eurozone average . the only way out would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies . to be sure , if germany were to exit the common currency , the path back toward competitiveness would have been easier for southern countries in southern countries , because the rump euro would undergo a devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone . spain , for example , would still need to cut its prices to 22-24 % , relative to its new european average . from that perspective , the crisis countries would not have been spared the painful retrenchment as they remain in a monetary union comprising competitive countries .
to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has shut off everyday operations in some offshore areas , generating severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) hardship for the region ’s impoverished fisheries . but perhaps the time has come to reflect on whether it is fair to condemn these communities to long-standing dependency on fisheries . another issue that risks being overlooked with a focus on pressing and immediate financial relief is the coastal communities of the long-term economy . one way to bolster india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to establish the marine equivalent of the us territorial forces , training chosen fisherfolk in how to perform search-and-rescue operations . such training , combined with student affinity to their fellow fishers and their light-turbulent marine expertise , would make for an extremely efficient reserve unit to be stationed when disaster strikes .
peace between opposing parties eastward of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be accomplished through negotiation . make no mistake : this is no invitation to arms or appeals to a violent uprising . but if one party cares more about a process than about the need for peace , something must go wrong . ramallah – the united states should stop placing a push to restart a palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so may well be the best route to achieving peace – one that reflects the enormous gap between the peace process and achieving genuine peace .
the warsaw pact of nice ( 2000 ) resulted from a rather poor compromise . the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as the peace project , the defense of the west ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity . the declaration by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country had assumed the european union ’s rotating six-month presidency by early 2007 , is unambiguous : an era of reflection , endorsed by the european commission in 2005 , ended . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historical divisions now demands a redefinition of the european project . maastricht treaties ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu , setting the foundations for political institutions that are equal to europe ’s economic might .
but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . the most recent fad is to officials prosecute libel newspapers , demanding more than $ 1 million . whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new store and buildings . part of the explanation for this gains official scrutiny , part is declining public interest , and part of the reason that russia ’s problems nowadays simply seem less urgent . after gaining influence over independent tv networks , ntv , and tase6 , russia ’s media have become vastly duller .
one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on the share of the population that is performing productive jobs in higher-value occupations . true , the united states is not denmark , either . but it is not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous and what americans can learn from them . in fact , according to oecd countries , the top seven countries in the world have welfare economies in abundance . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries are providing jobs that pay a decent wage to sustain a healthy , happy life .
berkeley – on my desk , it was now said that government macroeconomic distress , rather than an unstable private marketplace , or , more importantly , the shape of any macroeconomic regulation required to generate economic stability is straightforward and easy to achieve . considering them collectively , my oversized thinking is that the friedmans would find their task to justify and advocating advocating a small-time period of government libertarianism that is far more difficult today than it did in 1979 . berkeley – on my desk right now – is now said to have been based on the new book the great divergence : america ’s growing inequality crisis , and what we can do about it , and milton and raised director friedman ’s classic free to choose : the personal declaration . their case for the small-time government libertarianism rested on those claims , and now has largely crumbled , as the world has turned out , disagreed with them about how it works . back then , the friedmans made three potent factual assertions about how the world works .
according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods like foundations of erosion and profit shifting . second , the g20 needs to commit to fighting tax avoidance and unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) , which uses funds to pump money out of africa . the g20 should now follow through on this commitment , setting a clear timetable for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending since 2017 and a ban on exploration and manufacturing subsidies by 2018 . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter-measures to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as foundations erosion and profit shifting .
most immediately , the unit two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu now needs to decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility , as a signatory to the espoo convention , to implement a cross-border ecological impact assessment ( not to mention missing an opportunity that should be considered potential alternatives to continue operating in the reactor ’s operation ) , no such analysis is currently expected to take hold . the snriu will make this critical decision , without the key information on the health and environmental risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their ebrd representatives , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear-power plant until a cross-border assessment takes place . three in ukraine today ’s nuclear-power units are operating beyond their lifetime design , with nine others set to end their intended lifetime within the next five years .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model for urban food production . at the business level , more than 700 firms with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments , the us implies a grand coalition of business . and 289 investors , hold close to $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to the climate 100 + , a five-year initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate-change governance , curb emissions , and bolster climate-related financial disclosures . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial-market decision-making . as a result , global green-bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year .
already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . but this was no recipe for the restoration of stability and growth . to succeed in reviving a strong path of growth , east asia needs to deliver justice for more than individual human-rights violations . as asian values proponents have argued , all human rights – civil and political just as they are with social and economic responsibility – needs to be boosted . as asian values ’ proponents have argued , all human rights – civil and political , like social and economic , need to be strengthened .
whereas guarding against uncertainty was traditionally a moral issue , hedging against risk is a purely technical question . the key theoretical focus on the transformation of the debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of insecurity as a matter of risk . a virtuous chinese saving rate , on the other hand , castigated western economists for their failure to recognize that their duty to mankind was to spend . this was the key achievement of the era of math in economics , and it was not until now . major life uncertainty – the destination of one of the immortal souls – was castigated by nudges one toward morality .
as a result , italy – and the european union – is headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that has followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to generate an outright parliamentary majority has forced another election later this month . italy and greece all have many in common , beginning with the institutional malaise . having deposed a grand coalition , with either the anti-establishment five star movement or the former prime minister , silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani will depend on the senators ’ willingness to support particular measures . the cyprus crisis , which risks causing the country ’s banking system to crumble , and forcing cyprus out of the eurozone , could make the situation even more difficult to manage . but that approach is both inefficient and volatile .
in the 1980s , for example , america entered into such agreements with a foreign car , a micro-chip , iron lumber , and machine-tools producers . but just a couple of years ago , america ’s auto industry has been pushed into requiring a requirement in the trade deal , granting it the minimal market share of american exports to south korea . some of the conditions that have been imposed have since been forbidden by the world trade organization . trump is likely to dust these tools . in the 1980s , for example , america entered into such agreements with a foreign car , micro-chip , steel , 2006 , and machine-tool producers .
in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been a few times higher than the global average , that owes the world ’s climate justice , rather than the other way around . and the us per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country by far . according to data from the mckinsey global institute , america accounted for an impressive 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions between 1850 and 2013 . america today is just 4.4 % of the world ’s population , compared to just 20 % for the rest of the world . the paris accord does not victimize america ; on the other hand , america has a world-beating responsibility to acquire its own house in order .
china ’s ’s gdp growth , for example , was unaffected ( actually the economy grew at almost 10 % ) , when the us stock market lost half of its value between 2001 and 2005 – or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to fall dramatically again following the 2008 financial crisis ) . and that volatility is another reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market may soar or plummet by the double digits , without triggering a broader economic crash , at least so far . since then , china ’s stock market has been a worldwide laggard – that is , until last year , when it became the world ’s best performing position , rising to just over 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market opened up on the monday that followed its peak in 2008 . that rise was preceded by a loss of nearly a third of stock-market value from mid-june to early july .
i was seeking to explain the fact that his trademark phrase , en marche ! , which tends to be heard here as the expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead turn out to be one of the most visible traces of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . yet very soon we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america today . on one side are to be found in the sense that the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederates that have descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to crack down on some black and jewish head . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an ambiguous choice , “ at the same time in france ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and shudders before the unsolvable and terrifying mystery of the dual nature – both physical and spiritual – mortal , and resurrected – christ ’s tormented body . once again , the conversation has shifted to macron .
in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile and many others , engaging in trade protectionism ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , enabled inflation to skyrocket , and eventually suffered from currency crises . yet there can be little disagreement that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . writers like john f. kennedy argue that nineteenth-century americans had invented political populism , with its anti-elitist stance , and inflammatory rhetoric . argentines who gave the world über-populist juan domingo perón or brazilians who brought the us getúlio vargas might beg to differ . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and a growing number of others , engaged in trade protectionism ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed for inflation to skyrocket , and finally ran into currency crises .
israel is bound to struggle with this emerging new american doctrine , which equates it with iran , or even india and pakistan for that matter . what is notable is that it has so far lasted for so long . but it has been a recent declaration by the us secretary of defense robert gates that has been particularly shocking for israelis . it has expressed an understanding of iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons , because , it is said , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , israel , syria , and israel . the political contexts of the us , the israelis argue , will be arguing for this .
the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations general assembly all congratulated ouattara , calling gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted . abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire , the independent electoral commission ( cei ) – proclaimed the opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the winner of the country last november ’s presidential election with a combined 54.1 % of the popular vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , won a total of 45.9 % . one day after his release was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo ’s close ally , paul yao n’dre , annulled the results from seven northern departments , declaring gbagbo the electoral winner with a 51 % vote .
since the riots of the last spring , china ’s government has engaged in many proactive measures , even accepting the “ serf liberation day , ” ” to defend its record in tibet in the last 50 years , while continuing talks with the dalai lama ’s representatives . in contrast to the past year , when the rush home for lunar new year celebration hampered freak storms , this year , with a steady return of talks with the dalai lama ’s representatives . the fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of tibetan riots in 1959 , which led to the exile of the dalai lama and its supporters . littered with the host of extraordinarily sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than 2008 . many will stay there , because the global economic contraction hit china hard , costing them out of jobs .
likewise , success requires taking bold steps to tear down trade barriers , opening up the economy toward investment from fast-growing countries like china and india . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing off checks to itself . a government living within its means is a necessary condition for securing the long-term economy , but that is precisely what i am determined to deliver . dealing with a deficit requires difficult choices – from reforming the welfare system and raising the national pension age to controlling public-sector wages . we need responsible choices to make sure that we can live within our means – and that is what i am determined to deliver .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world demonstrates precisely that . the key to achieving it is the capacity to diversify domestic production through generating new activity , intensifying intra-country economic linkages , and create new domestic technological capabilities . building the industrial and modern service industries , for example , is critical to successful diversification . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities are a proven recipe for failure , as has been demonstrated by the sorry experience of much of the developing world in recent decades . second , while pushing the technology frontier is a critical component of industrial growth , what matters for developing countries is a shift in production and export structures , particularly by shifting resources toward higher-productivity activities .
the oed etymology ignores the non-english-speaking origins of the term , which can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental europe ’s student radicalism . today , few recognize where the term “ ” of globalization originated . earlier this word was used , but in a rather different sense , in a rather different sense . the oed etymology ignores the non-english-speaking origins of the term , which can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental europe ’s student radicalism . the oxford english dictionary gives as the earliest reference to its current usage of an academic article in 1972 .
the best “ serious consequences ” of which the un security council warned should iraq default on its commitments would be an even sharper effort to destroy its illicit weapons through ceaseless inspections of the country ’s insulting military capabilities : un inspectors , rather than invaders . the credible threat of war was vital to achieving that extraordinary feat . if in the age of inspections in iraq were exposed as having lied and cheated this would attest to the efficacy of inspections , scarcely the justification for military reprisals . but , precisely because it is so extraordinary that it is hard to see how implementing these threats by initiating a war can make any more sense at all . the best “ serious repercussions ” that the un security council warned should iraq fail to meet its commitments would be an even sharper effort to destroy its illicit weapons through continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders .
of course , the historical analogies are imperfect , to some extent . while their vision of “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and thus make it unacceptable for democratic governments to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . major states would have an interest in limiting damages by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls . to be sure , historical analogies are imperfect , to be sure . obviously , cyber technologies are very different from those of nuclear technologies , particularly because non-governmental actors can take advantage of it far more easily .
but , as some chinese policymakers react , all of the growth processes involve waste : the nineteenth-century railroads in britain and america created enormous overcapacity and investor losses , even as they were spurred by economic transformation . indeed , with banks failing to impose rigid budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms , and with a planning system incapable of imposing alternative efficient discipline , china is already awash with apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied and with enormous overcapacity in heavy industries . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , forever extending new loans to service their old debts . the bulk of that debt is owed in the state-owned system – for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks – and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , finance operations with either borrowing or printing money . to be sure , this would generate wasteful investment .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that plentiful natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching just a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that , unless namibia ’s natural-resource companies invest in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , resource depletion will leave the country poorer , rather than wealthier . they also know that it would be irresponsible to garner for namibians most of the country ’s resources , with rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining contracts in order to ensure that this is the case . transparency international is critical to this process , which is one reason why the government ’s robust support for press freedom is so crucial . as president hausmann geingob has told us , the press often says things it does n’t like .
anastasiades , a member of italy ’s pro-european dimokratikratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery and will naturally top its top priority . it is not inconceivable that this kind of cooperation could extend to include other neighbors around the levant . naturally , much will depend on how it fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the greek bailout package . nonetheless , a prudent look beyond contemporary turbulence – and , in anastasiades , anastasiades – provides grounds for optimism . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nick anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda .
but the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asked , “ what is europe doing ? ” for the reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents must draw from ranks behind the past , or from current prime ministers . the eu ’s own inner culture of caucasian countries and red tape is an impediment to the fact that no one in brussels much likes to speak of . it is not the structure that is conducive to political coups de theâter , and much of the commission ’s work is the inexorable grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . yet the commission ’s chief is being challenged by the dynamic european public face .
britain has chosen to leave the eu because it has outsized opinion . but it will soon need to follow a small-country model like that of switzerland or norway . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit , it , too , will have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to the eu . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that align itself more closely with other , more successful , small economies , not least by retaining eu membership . yet it will soon need to follow a small-country model similar to that of switzerland or norway .
second , with china such an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly , through important network effects ) , the world ’s second-largest economy outlook has disproportionately affected projections of global corporate income . and , with china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and the shadow-banking system attracting growing attention , too many companies are becoming anxious . successful innovations today are far less about financing , and far more to find the “ killer app . ” third , while firms recognize that innovation has been a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they , too , are being humbled by their increasingly winner-take-all character . as a result , many firms are less convinced that “ routine ” innovations yields large payoff , ending up investing less overall than they did before .
had the upheaval not been stymied in the first 48 hours , turkey probably would have slipped into a ruinous and violent civil war , the consequences of which extend well beyond its borders . stockholm – it has been just one year since its failed coup in turkey – and questions about the country ’s future still abound . yet putschists have failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who has then mobilized his own supporters , burying the coup ’s destiny . mutinous f-16 fighter jets bombed from the turkish parliament , and the 249 people lost their lives . last year , ’s ’s attempted coup was nothing short of a dramatic one .
seoul – once again , tensions are mounting across asia over north korea ’s missile program . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as an act of provocative action ” and a violation of the united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducted a nuclear-weapons test ban . but , rather than hot rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the us military ’s ramifications of a missile launch . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its rocket , but what will happen in july . in contrast to its earlier “ surprise ” ” missile launches , north korea ’s ’s government this time notified international agencies in advance that it will launch a “ “ satellite ” sometime from april 4 to eight .
and it has just held the first round of the us presidential election , which meets europe ’s own high standards of freedom and fairness . in the event , neither russia ’s closest allies nor russia would agree to recognize those occupied territories , or to legitimize its incursion . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome , and it needs to do so . it has been a decade since the eu initiated its eastern partnership , establishing a more reliable framework for the bloc ’s annual cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . this initiative is worth recalling , in part , an reaction to the soviet invasion of georgia earlier this summer , when the kremlin attempted to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states .
without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to crisis resolution , the continent ’s next ( and old ) nationalists will continue to acquire strength and endanger the whole project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . but the brics ’ decision requires solutions to europe ’s many crises . the brexit referendum highlights the way , both for the eu and the eu as a whole . it will follow either the sighs of relief ( as one hopes ) , or the kind of cataclysm that the eu can bring to its core and bring about catastrophe in the united kingdom . the eu ’s one-child policy is no longer sufficient .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can return to its core business of managing crises . whereas the crime case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now looks very precarious , the ensuing us press focus indicates an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unlimited expense accounts dominated by men with little or no sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic , if not more so , than ever before . christine lagarde , a competent and well-regarded technocrat , will have her hands filled with three important challenges . the first , and probably the simplest , question is to reestablish the imf ’s public image .
in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free in the us government ; it is a gift . because holders of distributed money do not have an entitlement to the central bank , the rise of the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but rather as the rise of the central bank itself . the rise of the monetary base is , however , just temporary ; when bond prices are redeemed , it reverts to its former level . because distributed holders have no say over the central bank , the rise of the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but rather as the rise of the central bank itself . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free in a government ; it is a gift .
brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk-averse index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and short-lived credits to international trade dried up , started to change the face of elections . gomes used the television time available to his three-party labor alliance in late june to great effect , but most of the credit his rise in opinion polls to the excellent performance of his second wife , the popular actress patricia pillar , who has been recovering from breast cancer . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk-averse index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and short-lived credits to international trade dried up , started to change the face of an election . then , in early july , pomes surged to 28 % , within a striking distance for lula , who declined to 33 % . with sarney , lula reed up at the polls , reaching 43 % in mid-may .
and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the communist party of china ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping plans to tighten his grip on the former british colony at all costs . it should be preparing to roil the formidable bill , and it must be prepared to do so . claremont , california – though a precipitous escalation of violence in hong kong seems terrifying , things may be about to get far worse .
moreover , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria , as well as the thorny issue of west sahara – hammered out integration in the maghreb , an absolute necessity for unlocking prosperity in north african countries . these failings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , despite important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional amendment , which shifted powers from a monarch to the parliament , as well as to legal reform , such as aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as progress toward family law and gender equality . it became a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing the proportion of its electricity generation to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets . and yet , despite challenges that it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has become a vocal champion of anti-extremism initiatives , including responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders .
after all , there is little reason to believe that the us fiscal compact , or proposed “ debt brakes ” , will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . in order to take advantage of eurobonds as a mechanism for eliminating the great sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term goal of eliminating moral hazard : it provides a absolution precisely on the other 60 % – of-gdp margin where countries will have the greatest difficulty resisting the temptation . rules need a credible mechanism of enforcement . to be sure , america ’s federal government never bailed out a state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws , or constitutional provisions that restrict deficit spending . to be sure , there is little reason to believe that the us fiscal compact , or even the proposed date of debt brakes , will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed .
but , because the trade-related aspects of india ’s intellectual-property rights act ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , every world trade organization member country must recognize one another ’s own pharmaceutical patents . india , for example , abides by a more stringent definition of what constitutes an invention that stops a tiny amount of evergreening ” : the process to extend a patent ’s life by withdrawing secondary patents for fringe drug improvements . yet , following amendments to india ’s patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the types of excesses that major us pharmaceutical companies routinely get away with in american and european countries . according to section 3 ( d ) of india ’s patents act , “ “ “ mere discovery ” of a new form … property , or … use for a well-known process ” is not eligible for a patent unless it is used in a new product , or it employs at least one new reactant . for indian drug makers , production generic versions of patented drugs would require license , and such licenses are rarely if ever were given .
according to data from brazil ’s national institute for space research , deforestation of brazil ’s portion of the amazon rose in june to an average of 88 % annually on a year . but bolsonaro does not want to sustain amazonian chaste ; he merely wants to be among those exploiting it . his promotion of the rainforests ’ development and attacks on environmental regulation has led , for example , to the expansion of rurals , especially cattle ranching , and illegal logging . foreign actors criticizing brazil ’s ’s ’s exploitation of its rainforest , from european governments to pope francis , advocate the promotion of biodiversity only to take advantage of it in the future . with characteristic misogyny recently proclaimed that brazil is like a virgin virgin saying that each overseas pervert the country wants ” ”
of course , there are notable differences between north korea and iran , of course . trump may have begun to recognize that mounting pressure on north korea does not exclude a seat in negotiations with kim . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , with north korea – which , in contrast to iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) – already having an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the american mainland . kim appears perfectly willing to subject the north koreans to the privations of any sort to remain in power . kim appears perfectly willing to subject the north koreans to the privations of any sort to remain in power .
the third argument for imposing counter-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to run a monetary stimulus . a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not hinder american monetary independence . but this reflects a profound misunderstanding of the issue . conventional monetary policy operates by altering the short-term policy interest rate , involving the central bank to buy and sell short-term us government debt . no interventions in the foreign exchange market are allowed to intervene .
after all , it would not have been funny if a crisis-dedicated charity celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value at it would have been paramount , for it would have been the only real rationale for the charities to exist . so , although the potential usefulness is the reason that governments devote so much money to science study in science , humans really expect more from science than it does . on this view , too , the science has a rather different , higher aim : understanding the natural world . so it is ’s ’s amusing to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether experimental physics , math , or cosmology , is of no use at all . but the joke would not have worked unless there were another , universally shared assumption that science has a value independent of any practical utility .
new york – last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization highlighted the need to place human rights at the heart of the response to the zika outbreak . last year , us president barack obama asked the us congress of $ 1.8 billion in emergency finance to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat . yet abortion policies intervened , as republican legislators , leading a us congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , made the funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that saddles women with too little responsibility while giving them far too little power – are not lost on all . the positions of the united states have n’t helped , either .
it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to provide it with oil and gas , and patrol its frontiers against migrants . such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public and to those in tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . if they become consolidated democracies as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption . and starting european loans would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortune back home . at long last , these countries ’ demographic wealth would be to meet their own needs .
edmund phelps of columbia university reports that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism , ” which he defines as a combination of an entrepreneurial spirit and financial institution to channel it . to be sure , what is advantageous today may prove problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will confront major challenges when their demographic pyramids of the elderly have to the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america today . but is this the precise description of slow-growing countries ? edmund phelps of columbia university contends that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism , ” which he defines as a combination of an entrepreneurial spirit and financial institutions to channel it . but , for now , this is not what is happening to the point of view of slow-growing countries .
peru and venezuela are hardly looking better off ; brazil may soon follow the same course soon . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next . lula ignacia da silva and his team leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is poised to reject traditional governments . institutions are ripped off ; property rights are being challenged ; and an arbitrary and ever-more corrupt redistribution effort is underway . lula ’s popularity ignacia da silva and his team leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is poised to reject traditional governments .
by 2040 , in the iea ’s more optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa produces $ 14kwh per person annually , much less than what is needed to keep the single three watt led permanently into the air . at the same time , the iea estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source of oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro , even with a carbon tax . at the same time , the iea estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source of oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro power , even with a carbon tax . by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa produces $ 14kwh per person annually , much less than what is needed to maintain a single two-watt led grid that will be lit permanently . yet western activists seem to believe that the world ’s worst-off people should be content with insufficient and irregular supplies of electricity .
with relatively sluggish growth , corporate profitability – upon which returns to the shadow banking system are based – is low and falling – is high . in 2011 and early 2012 , there was much talk of a crash in china in the us housing market , with a chain-the-counter reaction of defaults in underground credit networks and local-government financing platforms . where , then , will the high returns on financial products provided by the shadow banking system ? back in 2013 , talk shifted to the perils of a resurgent housing bubble and the implosion of the shadow banking system , consisting of predominantly wealth-management firms and trust firms . in 2011 and early 2012 , much talk about a crash in china ’s housing market and the collapse of the shadow banking system , which comprises predominantly wealth-management firms and trust firms .
but , while industry is facing the threat of bloated gas prices from all over the world , its concerns closer to home are those of the eu ’s abundance and national-security regulation . european industries are beset by similar problems , and are also afflicted by similar problems . refining and petrochemicals supply the eu with much of its fuel fuel , as well as an important source of tax revenue . the downstream industry , combined with the distribution of fuels , is contributing a combined total of about € 240 billion annually to the treasury ’s coffers . by any reckoning , this is an important industry to avoid over-regulation .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor angela merkel has been pushing back against trump . yet draining europe ’s poison will require much more than the scolding of america , and praying for trump ’s early departure . indeed , some eu leaders ’ approach to issues like immigration threatens to generate the systemic problems that trump will tolerate long after trump returned to a life of golf courses and bankruptcies courts . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities and welcomed the poor and downtrodden . sensible european leaders may well be forgiven for sending the uk politely and en masse , in order to shift their focus from threats to their long-term cohesion and core values .
acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing , and contemporary political sentiment certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may actually be empowering , for this implies the possibility of improvement in both economics and politics . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories – rational expectations , efficient markets , and monetary neutrality – are bound to converge . moreover , policymakers must rethink a large part of the ideological super-structure erected on market-based fundamentalist assumptions . if the world is too complicated and unpredictable for either markets or governments to achieve their social goals , then new system of checks and balances must be designed in a way that political decision-making can constrain economic incentives and vice versa .
likewise , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to rein in the incentives created by almost every country ’s fiscal regimes , to corporate leverage . at the same time , governments need to work to reduce the existing level of debt , and to the deficient global demand that it contributes . a more effective approach would employ a broader array of instruments , including debt restructuring . nor can austerity alone suffice , because it would require countries to undertake such large fiscal adjustments , which account for 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case , that citizens are likely to resist them , as greeks have been doing . likewise , it would be a difficult – but not impossible – – – to reduce the incentives created by almost every country ’s fiscal regimes , for corporate leverage .
tech entrepreneurs may be telling their investors that they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated by the notion that the world will be better off by selling their business to the top bidder . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for entrepreneurship . much has been written about extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . but silicon valley ceos are no robin hoods , either . and others are more tangible , like pulling out of personal data in exchange for access to services .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage won him a fatwa for apostasy of the fearsome head imam of the bradford mosque . one might say that no fewer could be expected of a labour leader with a bright future in churchill ’s country . but one still needs to follow through , to admit that khan did not follow through on these issues to facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel . moreover , he never wavered on critical questions about legal and practical equality for women , or about expressing his dismay at a growing number of niqabs , and hijabs now see on london ’s streets to stop people , notes , from speaking out to face . for europeans , this is a necessary principle for the first time .
perhaps the time to assess the financial-stability risks of an open banking sector came into the consultation period , before the directive came into effect . in europe , regulatory changes such as the second-payment directive ( psd2 ) were crucial in opening up the banking system , with regulators like the united kingdom ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s under financial conduct authority for some time running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants , by helping them to structure standards themselves . the aggregators may then present a customer with an integrated vision of their finances and offering add-on services . even now , the list of fsb contributors indicates that both the european commission and the key regulators in europe and north american countries have not been included . in europe , regulatory changes such as the second-payment directive ( psd2 ) was crucial in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s financial conduct authority had for some time running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way of new entrants by helping them to structure themselves to comply with standards .
consider finland , a nordic country endowed with many trees for its small populations . a conventional economist would argue that , given this , the country should be exporting the wood that finland has been doing . yet all wood-related goods constitute barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . a traditional development economist , on the other hand , would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by turning timber into paper or furniture , something that finland , too , is doing . some ideas turn out to be worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary issues – say , the availability of rare-earth elements and blinds to higher-risk opportunities that may lie elsewhere .
deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged on a zero-carbon electricity grid . by pursuing coal to gas or , more fuel-efficient gas-combustion vehicles , we are at risk of falling into the high-carbon trap . this more profound transformation , unlike low-hanging fruit today by many policymakers , offers the only path to climate safety ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . we need to move toward about 50 gw per kilowatt-hour by 2050 , rather than the equivalent of 500 grams of kilowatt-hour . this more profound transformation , unlike low-hanging fruit today for many policymakers , offers the only pathway to climate safety ( that is , staying below 2ºc limits ) .
( indeed , the great economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by preventing startup competitors from being challenged . ) but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or shove ) conglomerates toward export industries that can grow beyond what is domestically produced , industries in which competition encourages the discipline that they lack because they dominate local markets . rather than become agents of change , they are often likely to avoid change . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to accomplish , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to accomplish , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates .
what is iran doing in these countries in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? does it really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of the shia arabs ? the negotiation would also require covering contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of current hotspots . working groups may have been created to try to develop a shared narrative . what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and
because china will be the most important global market for the future , determining not just what the us produces and consume , but rather how . domestically , china will be the first country , which , owing to its sheer size and desired gdp growth , is being forced to pursue an entirely “ green ” economy . yet , despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in china , rather than by the west . consider the shift from the conventional automobile to the electric transport sector . domestically , china will be the first country to which , owing to its sheer size and desired gdp growth , is being forced to pursue an entirely “ green ” economy .
for countries following the agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit to bringing interest rates down to levels that are compatible with projected levels of inflation and growth , announcing how long ( say , nine months ) that will continue . but that declaration , oddly , has ignored spain ’s ’s ’s ’s higher pre-euro inflation – thus perplexing real and nominal rates , as well as more rapid gdp growth . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain at a rate of 6.5-7 % on a recent basis , on the grounds that spain had borrowed at almost the same rate in the 1990 ’s . a sporadic program , without such announced targets , is unlikely to work and may even prove counterproductive , because private investors may well be demanding an even higher rate of return , because the rising ecb ’s share of gdp would be regarded as senior , augmenting the risk . first , the ecb has ’s renewed bond purchases to express a clear intention of reducing sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels , which are at least 200 basis points below their july averages .
there were also proponents of a flexible inflation-targeting approach , who held that it was fine to place some weight on actual gdp growth in the short run , so long as the definition of an obvious longer-term cpi inflation . but that rule succumbed , rather quickly , to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s general argument , a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretionary power , remains extremely influential . close cousins included targeting price-level levels , rather than inflation , in order to target core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . but some felt that , if that definition had been stretched too far , this would have lost relevance . the inflation targeting was best known as the rule mandated by central banks to establish – and try their best to attain – the target range for the annual rate of change in the consumer price index ( cpi ) .
because firm ’s labor costs are someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational to a single firm is destructive in the aggregate . firms in the advanced economies are now shedding jobs , owing to inadequate final demand , resulting in excess capacity and uncertainty about future demand . but cutting jobs weakens final demand further , because it reduces labor income and increases inequality . the result is that free markets are not generating sufficient final demand . in the us , for example , slashing labor costs has reduced labor income ratios sharply .
as with the geographic displacement of american manufacturing jobs , the taa is no solution to this type of ailment . but , with amazon ’s working-age population concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of these jobs is very different from that of those that are being replaced by it . meanwhile , twenty-first-century employment grew by 47 % year on average , to 341,000 people in the last year . nor are import tariffs helping those left unemployed by the “ blockbuster video ” bankruptcy , border books , compusa circuit town , paypal , paypal , or the virgin megastores . as with the geographic displacement of american manufacturing jobs , the taa is no one-size-fits-all solution .
moreover , if ukraine is to become an international pariah , it can simply turn to russia , as is true of chinese president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . president putin ’s own behavior is probably the best explanation of his dislike in the name of democracy . yanukovych stands for a genuinely oligarchic state of the sort putin defeated at home , and yanukovych has accused yushchenko of selling off ukrainian firms to russia ’s corporations . yet , after this spectacular russian default , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic , posing the threat of a true democracy in his neighbor spilling over into russia . for the first time , ukrainians have cast their little-brother complex toward russian overboard .
of course , agricultural development can have severe economy-wide pitfalls , which must be navigated with due care . for example , because technology-driven productivity gains are reducing the number of farm workers that are needed , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and manage the flow of migration to urban areas have become even more essential . fortunately , africa , with its large population of increasingly well-educated young population – which is largely uninterested in hindsight – is well positioned to fill the higher-value-added jobs that emerge in and out of the agricultural sector . another potential pitfall from agricultural development is environmental damage , including land degradation , nutrient mining , excessive use of water , and water pollution . with africa already largely underemployed , there is little time to waste in implementing such strategies .
but this overlooks the greatest accomplishment of the lima agreement : ending the world ’s longstanding division into just two species , both developed and developing countries . for many of the deal ’s critics , particularly those at the environment movement , these compromises have made the lima agreement an excessively “ bottom-up ” deal . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by the joint us-imposed “ top-down ” set of rules . such critics worry that doing so will make it harder to persuade countries to cut their emissions further when it becomes clear that their collective efforts are insufficient and may even allow some countries to take advantage of irregular accounting methods . it almost certainly wo n’t have .
indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul ’s national university and the central backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korea ’s domestic politics by dropping wide hints that he may become the country ’s presidential nominee . yet recent polls indicate that a majority of voters mistrust both the incumbent government and the ruling party . ahn ’s most obvious merits are his personal history of overcoming profound challenges and his modest demeanor . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all the country ’s aloft anti-park and anti-president lee myung-bak forces , attracting the country ’s young people just as much . her refusal to strike out on her own is probably a major reason why she continues to lead various opinion polls .
some people will balk at the notion of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly also agree that preventing human deaths and misery , while providing food , water , and education to everyone , is vital , too . the reality is that there are simply not enough resources to do all of them . can we determine the economic value of protecting our natural world ? dhaka – we human beings not only share the planet with a multitude of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we also depend on them to survive .
in many emerging markets , and in the developing world , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transportation sectors . and elsewhere in the region , the tiny pacific island states , especially , are increasing vulnerability to the effects of climate change . this shifting landscape calls for bold action on a number of fronts . · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth when it comes to the downside risk materialize . · because inflation remains low across much of the rest of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case downside risks materialize .
it wishes to remain asia ’s sole country with permanent seats , an attitude that places it at odds with india . above all , the brics ’ concept represents its members ’ desire to shape a more plural global order . they are , for example , generally united in their frustrations with the – but not in their suggested response to – the us dollar ’s ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship with the brics countries has been with the united states . if the brics countries are to jell as the pressure group in international relations , they must agree on what they believe to be attainable political and economic goals .
first , an almost infinite amount of speech is set free by digital democracy . i then set a spotlight on the responsibilities of the internet and the gdps ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the subsequent sequence of events : my own interest in the future . and , third , there has been the “ deconstructionism ” of post-nietzscheans . first , an almost infinite amount of speech is set free by digital democracy . by historicizing the “ “ “ “ “ “ will ” “ “ “ truth ” ( michel foucault ” ) , place truth “ in quotation ” ( jacques derrida ) ; separating a sign from his referent ( louis althusser ) ; and miring an obvious in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) ( claude lévi-strauss ) for the quots in borromean ( jacques strauss ) .
but a damascene report by the world ’s anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping agenda , released shortly before this year ’s summer ’s olympic games in rio de janeiro , has brought it to the forefront of the public ’s consciousness . by definition , few success but those who are perhaps enjoying large personal and financial rewards . reaching the elite level in sports requires an enormous amount of hard work , dedication , and focus . solna , sweden ’s – – – elite sports and doping have long been deeply inter-connected . we should seize this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to bring an end to this profoundly unsound practice – and to rescue elite sports .
but isis ’s defeat and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east , or even an end to the syrian tragedy . continuing this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or to forge anything like a resilient framework for peace . berlin , with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) could soon find a thing to do in the past . instead , it remains trapped somewhere between the middle east and the twentieth century . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire at the end of world war i.
one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with the cost-benefit calculations ruling out higher levels of investment . even quick fixes are more efficient when key networks and systems , particularly the power grid , are resilient . that looks plainly wrong : numerous expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . that leads to a second , more plausible explanation , of both psychological and behavioral factors . why are we prone to under-investing in the resilience of our economies by core systems ?
in october , people ’s bank of china ( boj ) , responding to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , has raised their one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to just 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively , since 2007 . in the west , concern about the impact on chinese growth has triggered a fearful sell-off in us markets . in brazil , interest rates remain close to 11 % , on average , in the last five years . right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank of china raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by $ 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and the china central bank now indicates that it may raise interest rates further . meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction .
larger firms are more adept at pooled resources for research and development , a key determinant of china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder . for example , producers in jiangsu have been forced to adjust steadily to the fickle product-safety and environmental norms of their export markets . traditionally , contracts manufacturers in china are dispersed , and they are fiercely competitive . they have little if any say over domestic and international regulation . fewer fragmented industries also lobby a better job .
countries can exit pegged rates smoothly only when there is confidence in the economy , encouraging the belief that a more flexible exchange rate can appreciate as much as weakening . that may have been true of china at times ; it is no longer true today . this may have been true of china in the past ; it is no longer true today . but the literature on the basis of “ exit ” strategies ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” on how to replace a currency peg with an increasingly flexible exchange rate , makes it very clear that the moment when china may have navigated that transition smoothly has now arrived . no question , then , would the country have been better off with a more flexible exchange rate , which wiped out the one-way bets on speculators and acted as an economic shock absorber .
a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( which was meant to force the government-insured banks back into their core lending mission ) may work . the us senate ’s bill of derivatives provision is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing these constraints , have apparently lined up on the side of large us banks . but america ’s government would remiss out . the us legislation was not intended to ban derivatives , but simply to bar an implicit us government guarantee , subsidized by taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion of aig ) , which is neither a natural nor an inevitable by-product of lending . there are many ways to curbing the excesses of the big banks .
even with access to outside finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector in a revival of the country ’s economies . if aid arrives , egypt could start addressing some of its funding challenges ; but it still needs a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , surging inflation , high unemployment , and populist policies . unfortunately , the latest democracy-promotion activities by american ngos have cooled bilateral relations , threatening the $ 1.3 trillion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states . if aid arrives , egypt could start addressing some of its funding problems , but the long-term strategy is needed to spur sustainable growth .
and the gains from human contact and interaction are why salespeople still cite customers rather than benefit from skype , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face meetings ; i am on company boards ) are changing lives in ways that twitter and facebook are rarely doing . to be sure , those favoring work at home cite not only the costs and time in commuting times , but also the proliferation of meetings – too much culture – perhaps – and a steady deluge of communications that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . in fact , being physically present at work means engaging directly with other sharp , creative thinking . cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with the advent of free foods ) or the halls of the plug & game ’s accelerator , proximity matters . interestingly , i have heard that point at the tpp “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people have gone thousands of miles to meet to confront to share ideas and boost work relationships .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
while global goods trade has stalled , and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , digital information flows have surged 45-fold over the last decade , by circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovations worldwide . the quality of our talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and the rate of speed to the market assumes greater weight in such decisions . in the near term , 3d printing might reduce further the need for ships to ship their goods over long distances . but , on its own , globalization alone is not in retreat . if trade in global goods has indeed peaked relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to evolve by becoming the world ’s next workshops .
as xi put it at davos in 2017 , china is committed to growing an open global economy . compared to the standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade deals , as well as less on multilateral negotiating rounds . yet , in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will be very different from globalization as we know it . xi and his circle clearly will not be keen to dismantle the global trading system . as xi put it at davos in 2017 , china is committed “ to a rising global economy . ”
part of singh ’s problem is that the decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , the fewer highly subsidized cookgas cylinders ) have an immediate effect , whereas the gains from foreign investment take years to become apparent . within singh , the congress can rightly take credit for the most far-reaching such a program , mahatma gandhi ’s national rural job guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every impoverished rural family of 100 days per year of paying employment . within singh , the congress party of congress , pressure will mount to match the country ’s economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . with its 20-year record of accomplishment showing publicly , singh has a better case than most to be trusted by voters when he says that he is acting in its long-term interest . all politicians in democracies think in the short run ; few have time horizons extending beyond the coming elections .
that will enable bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the types of stimulus that european economies now require . the alternative is the one being urged by sarkozy and banque de france : purchases by european companies of their countries ’ government-bond holdings . that means , like the credit provided by italy and spanish banks over the past few months , that most of the new money would be loaned locally to safe households and big incumbents . the banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements , and to rebuild their balance sheets to financial health , which implies that they will use the ecb ’s money in ways that allow them to satisfy that objective most costs efficiently . so , for example , by using the money to resume private-sector financing , they would make sure that lending to creditworthy customers will continue .
in doing so , it would improve standing both in europe and beyond . turkey ’s ’s government needs to demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect all of its citizens ’ human rights . but symbolic measures , while important , are insufficient to bring about genuine progress . turkey has an important role to play in its region , and the world – one that is undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide . its blinkered approach to ending the genocide is incoherent with its ambition to cultivate a reputation as an honest , trustworthy partner .
yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign-investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , neither latin american ’s fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting the best practices . moreover , foreign investors are not about dealing with either diplomats or civilian employees . many are encouraging both foreign and domestic investment , despite past failures in such institutional arrangements . they want to talk to private-sector professionals who understand their companies ’ technical and financial needs or industries . for that , fdi must be fostered in isolation from domestic investment and exports .
big mining companies may be preparing for this shift , by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials like iron ore , copenhagen , bauxite , cobalt , precious earth elements , and lithium , just as mineral fertilizers will be necessary in large numbers to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . third , the world needs a better means of assessing mining co-risks . with the paris climate agreement just a year old , the transformation of global fossil-fuel markets is just a matter of time . phasing out co2 over times of latent overproduction may even be accomplished . big mining companies may be preparing for this shift , by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials like iron ore , copenhagen , bauxite , cobalt , precious earth elements , and lithium , as well as large-scale mineral fertilizers to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication .
but the observable diffraction pattern -- the intensities and positions of individual reflections -- represents only about half of all data that are needed to deduce from the structure of diffracting object . it has also acquired the first x-ray patterns of partly oriented dna samples . it has been given excellent hemoglobin crystals in the coming year , and soon produced the best x-ray patterns to date . indeed , max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna in the past , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work like a bernal graduate student . it gives excellent hemoglobin crystals in mathematical terms , but not phases -- that is , stages in the oscillatory motion -- without which no atomic positions could determine .
the endgame to determine the final shape of the european union is now underway . the text mostly replicates the structures of the convention ’s chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november , with the conclusions reached by the convention ’s working groups . it started with the publication by praesidium of the convention on the future of europe of the draft constitution of the constitution of the first sixteen articles of “ treaty to establish the european constitution . ” such fidelity to this kind of fidelity to economics has not kept pace with it . the key word here is most often missed .
in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion a year , firms pay more to do business . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of all firms experience electrical outages , costing them more than 15 % of their annual gdp , on average . in nigeria , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion annually , costing it more than 15 % of its annual gdp , on average . likewise , while all firms need data for investment and operating decision-making , official trend statistics in emerging markets are not always robust , and often skewed toward policy agendas . fueled by population growth and urbanization , demand is outstripping supply .
in crimea and chechnya , even the most rudimentary media protections are non-existent . russia today has fewer press freedom and more female journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 . the bbc ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . nor have closures spared prominent regional outlets such as siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad ’s top independent weekly paper , novye kolesa . each one of these outlets distinguished their coverage of sensitive stories – from the conflict in ukraine to high levels of corruption .
following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations about continued progress and continuing collaboration are high . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the carbon pricing coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments , as well as more than 180 firms and strategic partners , to place the value of carbon-dioxide emissions . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the carbon pricing coalition ( cplc ) , bringing together more than 30 governments , as well as more than 180 firms and strategic partners , to place a value on carbon dioxide emissions . this month , the thousands gathered for the un framework convention on climate change ( cplc ) , which brings together more than 30 governments , as well as more than 180 firms and strategic partners , to place the value of carbon-dioxide emissions . today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of firms worldwide are finally taking action .
the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risk . once greece goes , running on bank deposits is likely to follow in spain and italy . there is nothing to stop the spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local banks to one in switzerland , norway , or new york city . at that point , the only thing still stands between the eurozone and financial turmoil will be the ecb , which could purchase government bonds and the fund runs . but , crucially , this could step in – if northern europe is permitted .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , as well as in other regions in the region , frequently tout the model that singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who had died earlier this month . yet , more important , lee also relied on elements of a democratic contestation to ensure that the meritocracy had triumphed over patronage . here , it seems obvious that unmo ’s political interests were allowed to dictate the country ’s core opposition leader should be tried on charges that any genuine democracy embraces the rule of law would even contemplate leveling , with convicted evidence that any truly independent court would accept . yet the course on which the two countries embarked was not lee kuan yew . yes , lee kuan yew allowed him to remain in power after 31 years of power and to take advantage of civic – not criminal – courts to harry his opponents .
trump , in the comedian jon stewart , is “ america ’s id , ” ” ” ” id , or at least an id of a large number of mostly whites , most of whom are older , mostly small-town americans . yet trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world . are all his supporters “ crazies , ” as us senator john mccain has done , perhaps unwisely called them ? trump , for his part , argue that he plays into disaffected voters ’ basest instincts , who hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) ; mistrust bankers ( or anyone with a higher education ; for that matter ) ; and still can not get over the election of the president whose father is black . yet trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world .
spain ’s unemployment rate , one of the european union ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and continues to show little sign of improvement . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % and still shows little signs of improvement . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % year on year in 2009 and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . in europe , too , the picture is mixed . for finland , britain , and italy are below-average growth rates .
after all , this is the advice of a multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s department of homeland medical services . a healthy living now means carrying water bottles with us , sipping at all times , trying to drink our daily quota to make sure that we remain hydrated and healthy . indeed , often we sip without being thirsty , but that ’s how it should be : as beverage maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain may know too many , but it does n’t know when your body is thirsty . ” after all , this is the advice of a multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s next national health service . malmö – “ all of us ” – recognizes that you should drink the eight glasses of waterways per day .
firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , and are facing unprecedented risk penalties for their borrowing costs . at the same time , they are facing enormous uncertainties . what sort of power plants will become acceptable in the future ? can the united states still afford the suburban lifestyle of the day , with its sprawling homes in far-flung communities requiring long-distance automobile commutes ? will they be permitted to emit carbon dioxide just as they do ?
as i argue in germany earlier this week , the g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 has an opportunity to reshape the migrant governance system with proactive protection policies that enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . while past summits have produced little more than talk , the prospect that they will take action is better this time around , given the fact that talks will play out in europe , where the impact on the migration crisis has been felt so profoundly . weak mandates , insufficient financing , disorganized structures , and the absence of a system of global governance has weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ ability to operate with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . at present , the alphabet soup of nonprofit , as well as the multilateral agencies tackles of the challenge . these include independent groups , such as international ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
more than a generation ago , intel ’s _ based founder , gordon moore , has noted that improvements in the semiconductor fabrication enable a doubling of the transistors ' density on a chip every eighteen months . there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come . the scale of the investment required to make what is known as moore 's law has grown exponentially , along with the density of the transistors and circuits , but " moore 's law " remains valid , with engineers seeing no immediate barriers bringing the process to a halt anytime soon . by the end of the 1950s , there were about 2000 computers of the world , and their processing power had averaged about 10,000 machine counseling per second . by the end of the 1950s , there were about 300 million or so computers , with processing power averaging a few hundred million instructions a second -- an astounding four _ billion _ fold increase of raw automated computational power , an average annual gdp of more than 56 % !
these multidimensional , scalable interventions are helping to bridge the gaps in the developing world . but neither corporations nor governments can do it on their own on their own . xinjiang means the new frontier , ” ” ” ” ” ” , and right now , we are at the edge of the new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where scarce resources and infrastructure constrain health-care access . by targeting schools as health-education hubs and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and cronies , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic community . at the same time , they need working together to deliver the best possible outcomes .
and , beginning with the annapolis conference in late 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . at the end of 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the us state department to launch an interim agreement on “ substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . and , starting with the annapolis conference in late 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of talks between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now it is obama who is ’s turn , and should push for a united nations security council resolution that sets out new parameters for a future peace deal and replace un security council resolution 242 that dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare , even in america , media outlets ’s ’s coverage continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . indeed , on the rest of the world , the paper the australian news mentioned giffords 160 times in the six months since the shootings , compared to just one mention in the last 12 months . loughner ’s firing of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as was the court-ordered assessment of his mental competency . likewise , cho ’s own history of mental illness has been widely discussed . in that manner , perhaps well , america ’s mental-illness stigma may well be exporting .
more important , successful reform in ukraine makes positive developments all the more likely in russia . for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . ukraine is a large country , with its excessive human capital , its natural resources , and its growth potential in a wide range of sectors . yet ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by more than two-thirds ( in the dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it europe ’s poorest country . it is the essence of a global confrontation between democracy and autocracy .
civil strife and the rise of european neo-nazi parties exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . realigning relative prices would require an internal devaluation , potentially leading to social and political instability in the weaker countries . but this strategy carries significant risks , which ultimately make it unworkable . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries can exit and re-enter once after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform measures . at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the us dollar , given the fact that the eurozone is not an federalized state .
should they employ unemployed workers directly or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ? the problem arises when expansionary monetary policy via standard operations and the central-bank guarantee of disorderly markets prove insufficient . economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and , in what order governments should move beyond these first two items on an checklist . should they employ unemployed workers directly or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ?
but even that agreement is not fixed in stone , because it depends on whether eu negotiators can first agree on what to do about a border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland , once the uk leaves the eu ’s customs union . one can be found in a customs union with no borders or from outside a border-free customs union . there is little example anywhere in the world where this is not true . the uk ’s ministers are largely responsible for the talks – a group better known for its dogmatism and its personal ambitions than its competence – have so far succeeded in securing an agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 deadline , a biennial transition period will start . it also contains the promise of leaving the eu with a single market and a customs union .
the ecb , for its part , needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – at least below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term – is too narrow . a broader definition is required , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetrical inflation target of 2 % , within a 1.5-2.5 % band , over an extended period of time horizons . likewise , the eurozone is highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , unifying safe assets , or the tools of macroeconomic stabilization . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , that mandate probably should remain centered on price stability .
the israel-palestine conflict , for its part , has been going to a long last . israel and palestine should jointly offer , and be given to them , the 2018 soccer world cup soccer world cup . so many hopes have vanished in the midst of a bitter setback for so many rounds of negotiations . yet we are having a wish for the middle east , one that , while perhaps not bringing about peace , can generate one of the preconditions of peace : goodwill . so many hopes have vanished amid the bitter failures of so many negotiations .
so the real question now is how to reach out to the point that iraq has a police force and an army that can be trusted to uphold the rule of law just as much as order is concerned . in northern iraq , old scores are being established and de facto ethnic segregation in areas like irbil , which have traditionally been heterogeneous . in other areas , sharia law is being introduced by force . much of the ground must be covered to get anywhere near . notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure .
the disparity between madrid and warsaw demonstrations indicates that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , if not where rumsfeld meant it . it would be inaccurate , of course , to oppose a thriving poland into a collapse of spain . but moods in both countries , like their perceptions of europe and their role in italy , have starkly been made . in fact , unemployment hovers around 10 % ( still below half the spanish rate ) , and annual gdp growth remains at about 1 % ( spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate is negative ) . given the overall euro crisis , even poland ’s economies are no longer booming .
given the uk ’s economic , political , and military importance , brexit will leave behind the gaping hole in the eu . but it wo n’t blow up europe , either . berlin – a decision by the united kingdom ’s own voters to “ brexit ” brexit ” – is hardly an example of british black humor , which i love . it is not “ monty ” python ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s full slide circus , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” yes , yes , prime minister , ” ” ” ” ” or “ fawlty towers ” ” ” ” ; it is just boris johnson , michael gove , and nigel farage , and their catastrophic political realities show . currently , the same can not be said for the uk .
as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians recall nakbeh , or “ disaster ” – their dispossession ’s preamble to un security council resolution 242 termed the “ unadmissible acceptance of land by force . ” yet , for both sides , as with external powers , the 1948 events , and what followed , the occupation since the 1967 1967 occupation of the remaining lands of historic palestine , represent a tragic setback . israel is most at fault for this failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . yet the international community , the palestinians , and the arabs all assume responsibility just as much , if at various degrees , at different levels . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians recall nakbeh , or “ disaster ” – their dispossession ’s preamble , occupation , and statelessness .
tantalizingly , they say , would generate “ market-based views of future output , ” and the likelihood of severe shocks , even if they do not explain how this market is structured . lowering uncertainty might augment , or even be superior , in the form of fiscal stimulus programs , because it would address the root cause of unwillingness to spend . furthermore , recession insurance may , unlike in fiscal policy , impose zero cost on the government , for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk that it will be insured against inflation is averted . the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is just one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . blanchard and its colleagues emphasize that the banks might condition the loans to firms on their purchases of recession insurance that may help the credit markets function better , address a serious problem underlying today .
so far , enforcement has failed , owing to the flaws in europe ’s foundations . first , there is the need for fiscal and external-account balances to be kept in check , with the aim of ensuring financial stability and maintaining the common currency . the greek saga demonstrates that such a system can not manage the destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crises . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments within the framework of the rescue regime , arranged by the supranational body , the european commission , and the european central bank – in cooperation with the council of europe – that in turn represent national governments . the imbalances are not simply the product of irresponsible policies .
moreover , chinese exports sometimes would have intensified in the face of the slump in freefall , shipped out of ports . china ’s downturn appears sudden ; after all , its exports had been rising at double-digit rates each month , until the end of this year , until the end of last year . more specifically , china ’s “ “ one country ” trade surplus has long been obscured , but it has now been subject to tighter regulation of activities , such as the speculative trading act of the renminbi masquerading as trade payments . as a result , its trade surplus has continued to plummet , to more than $ 20.4 trillion , fueling growing anxiety about the chinese slowdown . in fact , the chinese economy ’s true condition has long been obscured , but now has been subject to tighter regulation of activities like the speculative trading act of the renminbi masquerading as trade payments .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , particularly if business leaders adhere to the newly-articulated principles of sustainable investment and longer-term engagement . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine does today in latin america – they have a responsibility not only to invest wisely and sustainably to their companies ’ sake , but to integrate their strategies with china ’s domestic investment priorities . clearly , those are not mutually exclusive ends , especially given that business leaders adhere to newly articulated principles for sustainable investment and longer-term engagement . after all , m & ai is just the first step on a long road . for most equity investors , any project ’s value depends largely on effective post-investment management .
working alongside countries with which the us shares common values and interests , the us will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from outer space and cyberspace to skies and seas . and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s own self-defense forces . as the world sees during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving . members of the self-defense forces displayed exemplary cooperation with america and the australian armed forces in afghanistan ’s 2011 earthquake , earning deep appreciation and respectability everywhere they have been deployed , including in haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving .
how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible negotiating capacity if the talks can not start until , as israel insists , it is withdrawing from its minimal settlement condition in the occupied territories ? yet another great question for israel is whether it can accept the full consequences if the two-state solution disappears altogether from the agenda . for all of which israel downplays its importance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still provides a critically important agreement : the full normalization of relations with the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . how long can this arab league ’s position be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ? israel , as its founding father , david ben-gurion , once warned , may well be a democratic state , and could be an occupying whole historic israel ; but it can not be all three .
but , even with favorable global markets , we did not manage to address the poverty problem , in which millions of russians still live . i am convinced that all of them are coming down to politics in russia . we need a democratic , competitive environment , an initiative of all levels ; an active civil society ; and actual public scrutiny . us russians have been riding on their oil and gas , forgetting that these resources will not last forever . nor has it been the crises fueling corruption that are affecting the officialdom on all levels or causing russia to lose its democratic dynamic .
fiscal responsibility in the eurozone as a whole would be fatally undermined . but allowing greece to default and remaining in the eurozone is no longer an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries can default on enormous debts financed by the ecb without having any intention of repaying it . in my judgment , there are only two viable options left behind . the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to judge realistically greece ’s lack of solvency , and so to stop lending to its ela funds to its banking system . yet forcing defaulting greece out of the eurozone – and remaining in the eurozone – is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries can amass enormous debts financed by the ecb without having any intention of repaying .
this brings us to the other key lever of expanding the affordable housing market : the more cohesive and efficient construction industry . additional savings are possible through industrial approaches , such as utilities , such as wall street and flooring slabs . for example , china imposes a idle-land tax on formerly public lands should its owners fail to launch an evolving process within a year . as it stands , the us has become highly fragmented , impeding its capacity to take advantage of economies of scale , with builders often relying largely on the same methods that have been used just 50 years ago . by standardizing design elements like cap heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction firms can slash costs and raise productivity as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks .
for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not just an effective option , one that is preventing 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often just the only solution , given that the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or cure for cervical cancer . encouragingly , developing-country governments have been increasingly demanding the hpv vaccine . this makes sense : of the 266,000 women dying from cervical cancer each year , on average , of just one each two minutes , of which 85 % live in the developing world . if left unchecked , the figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . this is one reason for cancer practitioners , government representatives , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives to meet just a few weeks ago , in addis ababa , for the tenth stop of cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the africa conference .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed the tangled web of illicit relations among private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and corporate cronies have been convicted and imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva ( amlo ) are currently under impeachment charges . corruption scandals have already reached its lowest level in brazilian society . washington , dc , and ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed the tangled web of illicit relations among private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians .
nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether health-care pressures will ultimately provoke the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism into reverse , with an extremely large chunk of an economy reverting to a more socialist system . this raises the long-term well being everywhere , but worsening short-term inequalities and frictions . most countries are relying far too heavily on command and control , and give far too few incentives to patients and providers to make efficient choices . some societies may decide that it is better to be red than dead . i am not arguing against health-care capitalism , but warning that support becomes fragile , far more so than it does , say , globalization nowadays .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his sentiment that james clerk maxwell ’s equations that depict the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ “ have independent existence and intelligence , ” that is , conventional … even than their discoverers , that we are getting more out of them than they were at first introduced into them . not long ago , albert einstein called the niels of bohr ’s atomic model , “ the highest form of musicality in a sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman , describing his discovery of the new laws of physics , proclaimed that one can recognize truth through its beauty and simplicity . similar sentiment is all but universal among the modern world ’s physicists . wishful thinking could never possibly produce work iphones , photos of pluto , or even atomic bombs .
there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interactions . there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interactions . in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization may delay , on the grounds that two contending groups are trapped in acts of attrition ; all understand that the adjustment is necessary but expecting the other group to bear the brunt of the costs . why , with the clearly formulated alternatives on the table , have the government opted for an predictably catastrophic course for action , at so heavy a human cost ? let us start with the last .
a world in which the u.s. has a proven track record of honoring the confidence required by it to play its role in the global economic hegemon is a far better world for america than one that is untrusted . a world in which the u.s. has a proven track record of honoring the confidence required for it to play its role in the global economic hegemon is a far better world for the u.s. than one in which it is untrusted . rather than see the 30 % appreciation that follows from the ecb 's current monetary policies , german exporters shout on measures to avoid america 's us-style more competitive devaluation of the us , finally bringing about moderate inflation in the north rather than the current grinding depression of the south . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and more secure world for the u.s. . here is where the fed comes in .
and a team of 47 republican senators has written a letter to iran by announcing that the next us congress may not honor whatever the nuclear deal they reach with obama . yet , ensuring that the us can continue to take the lead in the twenty-first century will require another type of engagement . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in its continued need for multilateral engagement , and that is always more difficult than bilateral engagement . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . indeed , multilateral leadership demands not only clearer and bolder rule , but also demonstrate a willingness to shoulder the costs of these rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold their own “ responsibility to protect ” civilians , or by taking concrete steps to reduce – and ultimately eliminate – their nuclear arsenals .
to be sure , neither maduro nor his associates will simply step down , because losing power would probably mean long prison terms in the united nations on drugs trafficking , or at the hague for crimes against humanity . caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration – has been eroding their countries . that demands a new government of questionable legitimacy , chosen through a free and fair presidential election before that year ’s end , as dictated by the us constitution . caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration – has been eroding their countries . while claiming to redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they refuse international assistance , force venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , die ) from severe food shortages , medicines , and medical supplies .
indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in the coastal provinces . but such investments ’ effectiveness will depend on the sequence and pace of implementation , as well as on how skillfully adapted to each locality ’s distinct resources , needs , and aspirations . and now , china ’s leaders are increasingly recognizing that the strategy inland , making critical investments in both physical and human capital . four interrelated issues need to be addressed . so far , china has been largely adopting a pattern of dreams ” attitude toward urbanization : building it and coming .
his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , aggravated his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states in parallel ; and , in the recent crisis , all of them earned were cut off from a mocking louisiana . that is not the easy question that must be answered , either . will kim respond that isolation recklessly , by continuing to antagonize the south , or , pragmatically , by becoming more flexible ? that should be obvious to kim today that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country . if china is indeed distancing itself from north korea in fact , kim jong-un ’s regime will almost completely insulate itself internationally .
the statistics are perplexing and sometimes contradictory , but europe ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million may grow by an additional 100 million migrants by mid-century . only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish migrants – emphasized the issue , referred to the “ “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that has developed in his own country . the need to address that outcome in france and throughout europe has become all the more important than ever before , because the rioting and criminality by some young , under-privileged immigrants is matched by the rise of far-right political parties . the one thing that has since changed is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some of its young people . europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking populations , europe badly needs more migrants .
this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . just as english-speaking empirical-research journals are consolidating their hold on canals that determine whether or not an scientist will have a success career , developing countries will need to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on more competitive locations . nonenglish-speaking academic journals simply do not command the same level of attention in the science community . non-english-speaking academic journals simply do not command the same level of attention in the science community . as english-speaking empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on canals that determine whether or not the scholar will experience a success career , developing countries will need to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on more competitive locations .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . at this week , the international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass must address those concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his recent history or by his links with the trump administration , but by his delivery .
but what matters is the real interest rate , that is , the gap between market rates and inflation levels . in fact , there are essentially two competing explanations , and there are essentially two competing explanations . this looks as paradoxical as it may be , because interest rates are already near zero in most advanced economies . its key premise is that the equilibrium interest rate , at which demand would balance the supply side at current levels , is currently below actual interest rates . larry summers suggested the first .
for its part , african players have grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their trade opportunities during a crucial period in the league game . but the most important lesson revealed by the arab cup is that the successful nations are those that are combining the globalization of opportunity with a strong domestic foundation . cameroon , by contrast , which egypt has defeated at last year featured only a single player from the domestic club and the g20 from european clubs . for its part , african players have grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during a crucial period of the league play . few egyptian players would have been familiar with the europeans watching that game ; but egypt has played a much better and deserve to prevail .
on the other hand , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight is most necessary . though metternich has sought to discourage any potential french resurgence , it has restored france ’s current frontiers . the genius of the habsburg empire , ’s crown prince klemens , von metternich , in framing the new international order after the napoleonic wars , is that it has not pressed a defeated france into a corner . by contrast , as henry kissinger argued , victors in world war i could neither deter a defeated germany nor provide it with an incentive to accept the treaty of versailles . berlin – the world ’s task in tackling north korea ’s unilateralism – makes no easy task by confronting an impoverished , effectively defeated country .
and , having been separated by the shift from president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential that the two recessions had been identified . yet the us economy had actually grown in the interim , only barely enough to contemplate distinct recessions . many economists believe that it was one prominent episode , and that is probably the appropriate way to think about it in a broader historical context . sometimes dating to a recession is what is called the name of judgment . america had a brief , severe recession in the 1980 ’s , followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 .
currently , the us has almost 8,000 sanctions globally , with iran by far the largest us state goal . in fact , much of the sanctions are being imposed by large countries against small ones . during bill clinton ’s summitry presidency , an estimated 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion , have been subjected to some form of american sanctions . in the 1990s , for example , us sanctions regimes were introduced at an average annual rate of about $ seven a year . of the 67 cases in that decade , two-thirds had been unilateral sanctions imposed by the un .
worse still , by announcing the withdrawal of america from the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) from the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) – designed at least partly to shape global trade and investment flows under western rules , rather than china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning america ’s policy , which may check china ’s surging influence in asia . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperately trying to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . in the same tweet justifying his telephone call with tsai , trump reiterated a false accusation that china is devaluing its currency in order to obtain an export advantage vis-à-vis the us . apparently , trump is antagonizing china for no good reason . his record in international economics has been antagonizing by china for no good reason .
what we do know is that there is no alternative great power willing and able to step in , assuming what was america ’s role . while china is frequently mentioned as a candidate , its leadership is focused on consolidating the domestic order and maintaining an artificially high level of economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest . likewise , russia is the country with the narrowly-based , us-led economy , which is focused on retaining power at home and restoring russia ’s influence in the middle east and europe . india is preoccupied with the challenge of economic development , and it is tied up with its troublesome relationship with pakistan . as it stands , china has been preoccupied with the challenge of economic development , tying itself off its contentious relationship with pakistan .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , from a peak of 8.1 % in the first quarter , and its lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . as a result , inflation plummeted in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house price for which the national bureau of statistics , unfortunately , stopped issuing official data , appears to be stabilizing , and may even fall , albeit modestly so . the slowing growth rate in china , to some degree , reflects the government ’s success in rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as from other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy . to contain inflationary and property bubbles since early 2010 , the chinese government tightened monetary policy . beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , to a peak of 8.1 % in the first quarter , and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddied with misplaced arguments about the issue , policy debates often go nowhere unless they frame the abortion first and foremost as a matter of health . from moral standpoint , there is a powerful case to be made for respect for women ’s personal liberty and bodily autonomy , rather than to force her to place her health or well-being at risk by carrying an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy .
at least half of those living in urban slums are under the age of 20 . each day , more people arrive in nairobi , lured by the promise of jobs , resources , and a better quality of life only to realize that they are not equipped to survive there , and that their children are growing up in slum conditions . with no access to education , that generation – which will soon be a majority – has little hope for ever escaping its straitened conditions . but , for how long will a majority serve a minority ? the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village worsens slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them out of the global development agenda .
the world in which we are living is the tiny garden of well examined territories surrounded by the dim , murky forest of disasters . the precautionary principle prescribes actions without regard to cost . disasters lurk in the distances are legion : asteroids and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts ; droughts , famines ; and floods ; volcanic eruptions ; the human over-populations and extinction of non-human beings ; soaring temperatures and sea-age ; depletion of clean air and water ages ; depletion of clean air and water ages ; depletion of clean air and water ; farms , farms , and fish . all of these disasters – and many more still imagined – are feasible , making it unacceptable for many to come . the problem now is that the principle can not be applied consistently .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , us economic policymaking focused on unemployment . yet employment is only one facet of the welfare state ; in today ’s world , that is not enough . the great depression ’s massive job losses , reversed only when world war ii and the massive accumulation of debt to fund it , jump-starting economic growth – had a lasting impact for at least two generations .
after all , both iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the sino-american rivalries , on the other hand , involves two economies that are intimately integrated with each other and with the rest of the world . the cold war of the twentieth century rotated two competing military alliances against one another . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
from 1968 to 1973 , britain ’s labor force and conservative governments organized the dismantling of all those living on the 55 islands that now constitute the british indian ocean region ( biot ) , and that fell apart from mauritius during the era of its independence . from 1968 to 1973 , britain ’s labor force and conservative governments organized the dismantling of all those living on the 55 islands that now constitute the british indian ocean region ( biot ) , and that fell apart from mauritius during the era of its independence . the chagossians were shipped to seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend off each other . this was accomplished at a time when the behest of the united states , which was embroiled in the vietnam war and called for , for understandable security reasons , the exploitation of diego garcia ’s island as an air and a naval base . the manner in which the inhabitants of that archipelago were systematically dispossessed and cast their ground in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy , for which the west can and should make restitution .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . islamabad – in the past year , pakistan has witnessed a second , successful democratic transition in its 71-year history – with prime minister imran khan taking office after winning a general election on an anti-corruption campaign . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing and able to work with both technocrats and the opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many pressing challenges . islamabad – the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , yet it does not augur all-out war .
but the challenge for setting whether a troubled entity is viable is the best left for the time being after the financial order was restored . because of the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can issue emergency financing only for the least five eligible institutions – something of a problem if only your four largest banks get into trouble – and confirm that the counterparty is financially viable before any financing can be made available . in any case , the countercyclical pursuit of price stability , and/or full employment during the cyclical downturns , now seems destined for an extended involuntary holiday . as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity needs to be made available to systemically important financial institutions immediately , even as they become insolvent and in resolution . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns .
at the same time , unless greece makes full adjustments in its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailouts by the eu and the ecb are still likely to prevent contagion risk from occurring in the rest of europe and an consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of a domino effect , from greece to spain , portugal , and the other euro-zone members . the eu and the ecb are fretting over the moral hazard of any “ bail-out ” bail-out . greece ’s default , after all , may have the same global systemic effects that came after the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 . fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more fragile and liable to default without a war chests to prevent a run on sovereign debt , while adequate policies are in place and gradually acquire credibility .
sharing the mountainous – and porous – borders with afghanistan , that region comprises many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . these religious parties , a coalition of which now heads provincial governments in the north west frontier province , were politically marginalized until given the central role of pakistan ’s military dictator in the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who ran pakistan ’s covert interventions in the war against the soviets in afghanistan . throughout its rule , religion-based politics grew along with that of the madrassahs , as well as combatants trained and furnished by pakistan and american intelligence agencies . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent pressure from washington , resulted in a u-turn by pakistan from pro-jihadi policies . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent push from washington , resulted in a u-turn by pakistan from pro-jihadi policies .
throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . it is tacitly accepted that , like the past , the world will contain a diversity of economic systems and regimes . so , too , history has once more triumphed over the ideology of the past . throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . mainstream politicians may yet be nod reverently when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the world is reverting to an older , more durable model .
upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez launched a campaign of 40 % of pdvsa ’s staff . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , and he uses it as a form of cash cow ; many of his social programs were financed directly by the company ’s budget . the first few years of his rule came to dominate his struggle to gain control over the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . starved of cash , pdvsa had been forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , raising rates of accidents and curtailed production . his hostility to the industry ’s foreign players ( he expropriated several american state-owned oil companies in 2007 ) limited investment and held back production .
an armed strike by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear installations is yet another possibility . moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , doing so would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and may also create the conditions that create trouble for the regime as a whole as a whole as well as for its domestic opponents . one downside of such a prospect that iran would likely be likely to retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , as well as to use hamas and hezbollah against israel and others . likewise , iran might be able to encroach on its oil traffic , leading to a price spike and delivering an additional blow to america and the global economic recovery . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed assault on iran by its nuclear facilities will , and should remain a formidable possibility , given the enormous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran .
and , with northern ireland ’s republican party headed by sinn fein demanding a vote to reunify the south , the very existence of the uk now is squarely on the agenda . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing the british union with the americas . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce that it will negotiate with eu negotiations based on the norway option of eea membership . whereas the conservatives want scotland to be in a britain without a european union , scottish nationalists want scotland in a european union without britain . lord north is remembered to lose the british union with america .
a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly division along sectarian lines . assad ’s final days are unlikely to be entirely pretty much any time soon . tight-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and many of the alawite minority ’s members will struggle to survive . the rise of the islamic state has been lending the support of the government , claiming that syria risks being overtaken by terrorist groups ; yet the regime finds itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s war aim has been reduced to avoiding decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy in hopes of favorable political solutions .
but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion . this is the narrative that afflicts all segments of society , the middle class is no less than the wealthy . there is little reason to expect the super-rich to act less selfishly than any other group . this is the narrative that afflicts all segments of society , the middle class is no less than the wealthy . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer a part of society , and have little need for government at all , that belief is commensurate with the objective of reality .
here , the only explanation still stands out is the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of output , such as production , less capital-intensive activities , like services . when disorder has multiple causes , then multiple treatments should occur . finally , central banks should establish a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to future slowdowns . but , while this may explain why capital spending has been weak and interest rates remain low for the past three years , it can not account for why capital spending has been insufficient to prevent trending rates over the next three decades . here , the only explanation still stands is the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , such as manufacturing , to less capital-intensive activities like services .
across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . look at putin ’s attempts to rig ukraine in the last year ’s presidential election , and again off criminal charges brought against the opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . once again , exposure to western values has delivered yet another village of potemkin ; russia presents the façade of laws and democratic institutions ; but , behind the cardboard ’s surface , the equally arbitrary brutes govern . look at putin ’s attempts to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential election last year , and again taking criminal charges brought against the opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . the danger for the world now is that putin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s lawlessness .
throughout the hemisphere , the paternalistic governments of octavio paz once referred to the “ philanthropic ogres ” of creating eu clients , those who expect the eu to be demanding . throughout the region , the politicians that the writer octavio paz once referred to as the philanthropic ogres ” of creating eu clients , people who expect the eu to be demanding . there are far too many entry barriers to the poor , innovative ones , and those without access to credit . a democratic latin american limps sideways , because they can not run ahead . in latin america , too many people are living with outstretched hands .
competitiveness , for example , has to do with the capacity to raise the market ’s share without sacrificing margin or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity . but this is not what such indexes actually measure . two examples of this are the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , more inclusive growth and development indices . inclusiveness ’s growth momentum has to do with income disparities and growth across diverse regions , as well as among social groups . instead , indexes comprise the variables , referring to what they refer as an economic space ” ” ” ” that supposedly produces either competitiveness or inclusive growth .
but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch reacted to their past excesses with an array of policies designed to encourage a return to work in the formal labor market . whether one deemed the dutch welfare state ’s humane and generous , or bloated , and foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . from the 1960s ’s and 1970s onwards , those writing in the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” there were so many generous subsidies , grants , and transfer payments that targeted all of the truly needy artists to artists to be unable to sell their jobs , that after-tax wages often barely exceed the benefits . thus , people seldom went back to work after losing or leaving a job , or do so in an underground economy with unreported cash payments .
yet substantial segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america falls into a recession in the months ahead , trump is about to be reelected . to be sure , both trump and adolf hitler have very little in common . but , in their obvious acceptance of trump ’s re-election , large segments of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s financial and industrial elites once hitler ’s return to power in the 1930s . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have very little in common . but , in their obvious acceptance of trump ’s re-election , large segments of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s financial and industrial elites when hitler came to power in the 1930s .
governments need to take action , complementing their own pro-growth policies with policies to ensure that gains are shared far more equitably and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have been working to address rising inequality with progressive redistribution policies . south korea ’s government , for example , recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage next year to 16.4 % , to $ 7,530 , to $ 7,530 won ( to $ 6.70 ) a hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 . to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , provide youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascene the income ladder . market mechanisms are not enough to accomplish this .
the israeli infantrymen had a taped flashlights to their helmets , so that the think tank gunships could direct their fire at egyptians only ahead of them . still , egyptian artillery took precedence , and was it supposed to be at least silenced by tanks firing near trench lines . egyptian defenses blocked a central highway across the sinai , with an over-enriched box containing powerful artillery and over 100 tanks , fronking the three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen , and anchored on the sand dunes and high ground at each end . the israeli infantrymen had a taped flashlights to their helmets in order to enable the think tank gunships to direct their fire at egyptians only ahead . yet paratroopers , a flown in helicopter , suddenly jumped the egyptian gun crews , which never got a chance at hand-to-hand fight .
such certifications are all the more important in the developing world , given the limited accessibility of mental-health professionals . over the past three years , about 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , thanks in part to demands that people in particular positions , such as child-care workers , have first-aid certificates . in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . pilot work in rural india demonstrates that mental-health first-aid approaches can be adapted successfully to meet the needs of scarce resource-scarce communities . requiring that people in particular occupations – including high teachers , nurses , and police officers – acquire mental-health first-aid certifications would dramatically boost participation , thereby boosting support for those fighting mental-health challenges .
in response to this offer ( as well as bad publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers squibb , three big patent-holding companies have announced that their willingness to provide an african market at “ zero earnings ” – ie , about $ 500 per patient annually for the aids drugs that they produce . but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries come together with the kind of assurance that the poor gain the access to the medical care they need ? the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying from aids , even as the drugs exist to treat them , raises profound questions about global intellectual-property rights , because patent protections create an existential barrier to vital medicines reaching the world ’s poor . some quality generic drug producers , like india ’s cipla , have offered to provide such drugs at prices near the price of production costs . yet the costs of producing these drugs are far less than those of the market , possibly as low as $ 350 – $ 500 a year for some of the three-drug combinations used to treat aids .
having never held elected office , macron has created a new party centered on itself , with the support of both center-left and center-right voters . this reading is reinforced by macron ’s experience in himself . but what , if populist movements ’ continued electoral success are helping to steer the direction of a larger political restructuring that ultimately boosts european democracy ? next year , the european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such a political realignment . he appears to have restructured french politics in this process .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , coverage of the time magazine ’s “ “ neam ” issue featured salome karwah , a nursing assistant who not only survived the ebola epidemic in her home liberia that year , but also has helped the waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . in the nineteenth century , just as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended in their maternal deaths . childbirth has been a dangerous outcome for women and newborn infants throughout human history . one year ago , she died from preventable complications in childbirth , a killer that takes twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic . karwah was a hero to meet the tragic end of the year .
unemployment in turkey and jordan is roughly 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that might cost their citizens jobs . the rest of the region has wanted to emulate them , too . an estimated two million syrians currently live in turkey , with more than one million living in jordan . to be sure , the refugee labor force represents a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that might cost their citizens jobs .
but the language used by those wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight out of the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ “ american values . ” the problem for obama is rooted in the conflicting nature of his administration . one reason that american president george w. bush ’s election victory in 2008 was that the rhetoric of american idealism once again led to the deaths and displacement of millions . now that american policymakers speak of “ liberty , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ “ american values . ” the problem for obama is rooted in the conflicting character of his administration .
in the past , such a combination of countries has been nearly unthinkable , and such exercises can not be explained away as simple “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance . for example , this summer , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercises . but that ’s precisely because bush did not start addressing an issue that is looming ever greater in the region : the changing security face in asia , given china ’s rising economic and military might . in the past , such a combination of countries has been nearly unthinkable , and such exercises can not be explained away as simple “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance . president bush ’s recent visit to asia produced little news – through design .
they should consider the reforms that include giving city governments the authority , the resources , and the responsibilities they need to tackle their health and health-care outcomes . proven systems and reform should be shared among emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and ideas should be tailored to local conditions . anticipatory urban planning , based on realistic demographic projections , patient registry , and health-information systems , as well as participation in urban health-knowledge networks , must be undertaken . this includes new , affordable technology , such as low-cost , community-health workers ’ mobile telephony . emerging-market governments need to address critical issues stemming from weak coordination across borders and between , national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs .
that question stands out in view of chinese public opinion in the latter phase of the tibet crisis . throngs of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets to protest the prejudice they were perceived in western media reporting . shanghai , the tight media control of tibet unrest was followed by what , to some extent , some looks like far more open coverage of the devastating earthquake in the sichuan province . throngs of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets in protest about the prejudice that they were perceived in western media coverage . is this turning out to be a change in china ’s media strategy or just brexit a short-term shift in tactics ?
and nature did its part by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as an energy source , rather than both . thus , their livers also stayed healthy . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and that , in turn , caused the liver to store glucose as the glycogen ( the liver starch ) . meanwhile , our gatherer ’s ancestors ate the carbohydrate ( the polymers of glucose ) , which , too , had been shipped to the liver , through the glycolytic pathway , broke out for an energy . as a result , our forebears ’ livers have remained healthy .
there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already championed the struggle against hiv/aids struggle . across africa , the illness is estimated to have reduced the average national growth rate by 2-4 percentage points annually . sub-saharan africa has a 10 % share of the world ’s population , but it is home to 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and an estimated 34 million people are living with hiv/aids , which requires treatment to remain alive . in reality , the crisis has merely become less visible .
even the us has stated that it would be reluctant to negotiate an isolated free trade agreement with the eu . the uk would need to accept the sort of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping them . even the us has stated that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade agreement with the uk . if that democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , it will be left on its own , out of an economic cold . leaving the single market would create grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial sector .
as america ’s military leaves the american army , it will enter yet another period of political and strategic insecurity , following nearly a half-century of disorder and civil war . the first is the management of the transition to afghan control , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by the end of 2014 . for afghanistan , which is ravaged by a war without respite from the “ “ saur ” of 1978 , the endgame is likely to be even more nerve-wracking . the other is the election , too , to be held back by the 2014 election , of the new afghan president – a process necessary to authorize the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that they are passing the country over to a legitimate government . as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly influence the withdrawal and ultimate result .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on a post-brexit relationship will inflict tremendous damage on their countries . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their sights are wide open . new york city , watching an ingenious , democratic society knowingly strolled into a predictable , avoidable national catastrophe , and an alarming lesson .
indeed , the predictions that cuba may now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening may prove accurate only in the short run . after all , such a change is best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or by the military shock and awe of ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvements and diplomatic engagement by outside powers . the normalization of relations with the us is key to cuba ’s liberalization . after all , such a change is best served not by the imposition of stifling sanctions , or by the military “ shock ” of shock and awe tactics , as occurred in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by outside powers . this is no longer an option , but it can be taken for granted .
though countries have not descended into full protectionism since the onset of the global financial crisis , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets while attempting to acquire external competitiveness . it is well recognized that weidmann does not enjoy it when central banks , particularly the european central bank , are buying up sovereign bonds . but arguing that unconventional monetary-policy measures would do the risk of an even stronger interest-rate politicizing the exchange rate misses the mark . in fact , a great deal of political activity in recent years has been focused directly or indirectly on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions . but , while vigilance about vigilance is at hand , the chance that the major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – mired in a process that is slim .
moreover , even as studies suggest that the short period of directly measurable economic gains at the national level is relatively small , with unskilled workers able to suffer from competition , skilled migrants may remain important for particular industries in particular . moreover , although studies suggest that the short - , directly measurable economic gains at the national level are relatively small , and the unskilled labor force may suffer from competition , skilled migrants may be important in particular industries . the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . the us today is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now , it still seems likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades .
but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of timeworn “ bowine sink ” attitude toward chinese economic policymaking – myriad proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best – and that are often beset by internal inconsistencies . in fact , just two of the six major economic tasks , identified by a working conference , fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . what is needed is a new approach , and will require three key shifts in china ’s economic-policy framework . likewise , an emphasis on markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure , and eliminating excess capacity , is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift toward consumer society . the call for enhanced social security is in line with the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) ’ profits to fund safety-net programs like pensions and health care .
as european growth slows , so , too , will inflationary pressures . it defies the economic rationale to think that the global economy , including europe , will be falling headlong into a severe slump . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will depress energy , commodity , and food-price prices in world markets , all of which are relevant factors behind the currently elevated european levels of inflation . thus , trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let an economic slowdown do the job for him . the fundamental economic reality confronting the ecb today is that america ’s economy is sinking headlong into a severe slump , – bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to that .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems intent on changing that ) , whereas poland ’s leaders consistently warned that russia may once again become a menace to the continent . poles have paid a steep price , but they have been right to do so . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras appears intent on changing that ) , whereas poland ’s leaders consistently warned that russia may once again become a menace to the continent . as a result , hungary whereas hungary pays gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 – the highest price ever in the eu . eu countries that it can not intimidate militarily , owing to nato ’s , have been wooed with discounts or punished by price hikes .
but , though accusations from biopiracy may have some emotional appeal , impartial analyses have demonstrated that they have little factual basis . indeed , biopiracy is rare , so precious that it can be handled directly . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing the multilateral system for access to an agreed-upon list of agricultural genetic resources . likewise , the seed treaty has brought under the scrutiny of its parties , as well as the un secretariat the 15 research institutes of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership . instead , the world has created baroque , a bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically prioritizes scientific research , plant breeding , and creating intellectual capital .
moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media are now criticizing their own economic and political agendas . indeed , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , yet khamenei reiterated his illegitimate efforts – and has now put a stop to mashai ’s candidacy entirely . likewise , he has reduced the resources that have been channeled toward specific religious institutions , helped those in his circle to establish private banks through easing regulation , and has challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military establishment , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , the support of the president has waned considerably , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as just a deviation circle . with the end of ahmadinejad at his second and last term fast approaching , a disgraced , unpopular president seems unlikely to abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment .
as the economist marco fortis points out , italy ’s family wealth remains , if not for long , second to none in europe . beyond increasing international credibility , two major shifts in italy ’s political landscape have shaped the electoral campaign . the fiscal plan has highlighted the fact that italy , like japan ’s , is a country of both public debt and its private wealth . to make greater its public credibility , monti ’s ’s government raised taxes substantially , especially on the real economy , while preserving its already record-high income-tax rate . under monti ’s leadership , the reforms were finally initiated , and markets were calmed .
but some lines need to be drawn if a good government is to be possible , just as the privacy zone in our personal and family lives lives is critical to sustaining the relationships that matter most for us . it does not undo the original damage , and usually compounds it with further publicity . in fact , prosecution typically boosts leakers ’ stature , making it redundant as a deterrent . one of the hardetest lessons for senior us government officials to learn – including for me , at a time when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister david cameron – is an futility , to all but a miniscule minority of cases , from an attempt to prosecute and sanction those responsible for leaks . one of the toughest lessons for senior government officials to learn the – ­ – including me , at a time when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister tony blair – is an futility , in all but a miniscule minority of cases , trying to prosecute and sanction those responsible for leaks .
this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as quickly as possible . she wants to spend out before voters recognize that the leave campaign has sold them a phony bill of goods , including a promise that they can retain all of the benefits of eu membership , especially full access to the european single market , without allowing the free movement of labor . she also recognizes that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight on “ defeats , ” ” ” ” while hardly noting that she wins . clearly , neither is being created – nor post-brexit britain – to please both groups . moreover , though may has been in the “ remain ” camp during the brexit referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will be held responsible for any setbacks in the brexit negotiations .
among other things , such surveys should aim to develop a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drugs , unsafe sexual behavior , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and an unhealthy one . at the same time , data-collection efforts should include targeting mental health problems . according to the global burden of disease study , in terms of health risk factors that explain at least 50 % of early deaths and disability deaths from adults aged 50 and above ; for young people , that figure drops , to just over 26 % . to complement this effort , we also need to invest to improve our understanding of how these risk factors arise , most often in conjunction with early childhood and adulthood , affecting adolescents . according to a global disease study , in terms of health risk factors that explain at least 50 % of early deaths and disabilities aged 50 and above ; for young people , that figure drops to 26 % .
but talk about regime change may have prompted musharraf to re-enter into politics . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan . ” thus , in a long conversation with the bbc over the launch of its new party , musharraf hinted that pakistan is the only institution capable of saving the country from its current woes . only an politician with the backing of prominent constituencies can hope to restore the political order and economic health order , and musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate with whom the military might support . pakistan , these days , is a troubled country politically , just as economically .
the european union provides just one example of how longstanding , binding commitments can work . with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies are finding themselves struggling to secure stable long-term growth in ways that , say , an authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to tackle this problem in a democratic context . first , governments could be bound to become more tightly tied to their predecessors . that way , more forward-thinking legislation , which has been hotly debated and enacted , will have time to take effect , without the risk that it simply will be revoked by the ensuing administration .
at the wef in incheon , the nobel peace prize laureate kailash laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement demanding that an education be put prominently on the agenda of any politician running for the election , at all levels of government . incheon ’s declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of global public spending to education . furthermore , ongoing lapses in aid to education must be reversed , with new funding sources – like emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – needed to be mobilized . this starts with the political will and sets of priorities . incheon ’s declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of global public spending to education .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it needs to act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar ’s peg of ties to its hands , as it impedes them to raise interest rates sufficiently . ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % annually , 10 % below the rate of inflation , implying that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % annually . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , blew itself up by no fewer than 52 % over the past year , which points to inflation hitting 30 % anytime soon . moreover , rationing has always been much worse than markets , which is not the case now . instead , they have reverted to rigid reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and causing a domestic credit squeeze in the midst of the current international financial crisis , probably forcing some mid-sized banks into insolvency , owing to liquidity problems .
developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a part . the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime , as well as the struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before , because neither the conservatives nor the reformers were prepared to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . iran would then find it hard to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its standing will become all the more complicated in iraq , despite its shia majority . the fall of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran that would then confront the united arab front , backed by turkey , the us , and , to some extent , israel . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this route to failure will close .
as mark leonard , the european council ’s director on foreign relations , put it , “ “ the conventional wisdom ” is that europeans have arrived and gone . its lack of vision , divisions , obsessive approach to legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military might ; and sclerotic economies are in stark contrast to the united states as a whole , “ exert global influence over the full spectrum ” from the ‘ hard ’ to the ‘ soft age . ” the american political scientist andrei moravcsik makes the similar argument that european nations , singly and collectively , are the only states other than the us , which can “ “ exert global influence over the full spectrum ” from the ‘ hard slog to the ‘ soft age . ” insofar as the term maintains any significance , the world as a whole is bipolar , and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future . the eu ’s approach to power sharing , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict through multiple committees may prove frustrating and lacks the drama , but it has become increasingly relevant to many issues in a networked and interdependent world .
while some will argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is actually not at all clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly said in public settings that he will not announce a preference among the candidates . indeed , in massachusetts , in massachusetts , ayatollah khamenei has said that there are some rumors that i will support a special candidate for the current presidential election . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly said in public settings that he will not announce a preference among the candidates . but i have one vote , and i would not determine some kind of candidate , because the people themselves should elect their candidates based on their own expertise .
although net tax changes may widen the budget deficit in the short run , the stimulus effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean more rapid economic growth and larger real incomes , both of which cause rising taxable incomes and lower longer-term deficits . likewise , moving toward a territorial tax system will raise taxable income for taxable income , particularly in the short run , because firms repatriate some of the current overseas stock . there is an important legislative reason why a projected budget will return to surpluses in the future . the republican party has only a very small majority in the senate , where the filibuster rule entails a three-fifths majority to pass most legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block a republican tax agenda . but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and by lowering tax rates on personal incomes will boost taxable incomes as individuals raise earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash .
and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis , before the introduction of the eu , should be introduced . the eu also needs to re-energize its operation sophia initiative to fight refugee smuggling in the mediterranean region . combining them has brought its asylum system closer to the verge of collapse ; separating it would help to ensure that those in fear of a lifetime can be given a fair say in which their rights are safeguarded . second , europe needs to manage the flow of economic migrants and asylum-seekers in isolation from the eu . at the same time , the eu must revitalize its operation sophia initiative to fight refugee smuggling in the mediterranean .
but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis came from large public deficits . in both cases , efforts to defend the fixed-exchange rate against capital-flow reversals were an important factor , as was true in turkey in the year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 . emerging-market bulls indicate that most major middle-income countries substantially shrank their public-sector debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal space that they lacked in the past . to what extent are today ’s conditions comparable to those that triggered the 1997 asian crisis or other preposter-than-expected capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? will the fed pursue a gradual reduction of qe bring about more emerging-market challenges this year ?
one possibility is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and average work life extending up to age 70 , and to even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to climb . at the same time , younger people are long for more time to spend on education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies enable the elderly to work for more years to come , and let everyone work for fewer hours . at the same time , younger people in their fifties and sixties would want to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week . such a reform could be undertaken over a few decades without slowing economic growth or reducing prosperity .
prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but , because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to make any effort at all . denmark 's government has done just that , and appears to be bringing the danish public around the idea of joining the euro . it is that the commitment , by which the eu is now in place , is now bound by the eu . denmark 's government did just that , and appears to be bringing the danish public around the idea of joining the euro . denmark 's government did just that , and appears to be bringing the danish public about the idea of joining the euro .
a recent report by the bipartisan us energy policy commission exemplifies a new coalition . whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb long-term oil imports , such action requires major change in the transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete . more important , companies like general electric are committing themselves to green goals that go well beyond government regulation . a recent report by the bipartisan us energy policy commission exemplifies the new coalition . at the center of the scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will achieve almost three times their preindustrial level in 2100 . while president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb near-term oil imports , such action requires major changes in the transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete .
at the same time , they should be investing in acquiring communication skills that are similarly critical to successful careers . people in these fields ultimately buy and sell corporate executives as many jobs in the tech field . an important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to attain a deep understanding , rather than rote memorization , of subjects that they study , in order to fulfill the role of a true expert in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue . hardly anyone makes all of this way forward in the business world . achieving this type of education will probably mean pursuing what one naturally finds interesting and engaging , whether it comes from finance or physiology .
in the united states , about 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties , compared to 59 % who are already mothers , and almost two-thirds identify with an organized religion . each year , up to 25 % of all pregnancies – about 56 million – go to an end . abortion occurs in each country , and within any socioeconomic class . but this day , there is also the spread of news in the name of elizabeth and other women like her : abortion , while in many countries , a political wedge is simply a fact of life . this day , however , is also the focus of an expanding message in the name of elizabeth i and other women like her : abortion , whereas in many countries , a political wedge is simply a reality .
but one should not expect too much from the tough ecb ’s stance . the second argument is that if the ecb stays firm , workers wo n’t demand higher nominal wages , because they can understand that this would lead only to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . the ecb should not delude itself to think that a small rise in interest rates will suffice . the ecb should not delude itself to think that a small increase in interest rates will suffice . when and when wage pressure arrives , the ecb , to stay true of its word , can be induced to push up interest rates far more than it now expects .
megaupload permitted its 180 million registered users to upload and downtrodden movies , tv shows , and music some of the money earned by dotcom ( out of advertisements and subscriptions ) was on display at their mansion near auckland , where there was a simple rolls-royce and other exotic cars . last month , the united states considered legislation targeting a halt to internet piracy . but megaupload offered cash rewards for users , who had uploaded files , which turned out to be popular with other users . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that the megaupload was simply providing storage to its subscribers ’ files and has no control over what they are storing . bills have since been written at the urging of hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries that argue that copyright violations on the web are costing america 100,000 jobs .
but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallels are hardly far-fetched . indeed , by choosing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer from the 1936 berlin games to design a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s ’s ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of the aesthetics that has been the hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist ones , china ’s leaders have struggled to turn public space and sports events into visible evidence of their fitness and mandate to govern . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist ones , china ’s leaders have struggled to turn public spaces and sports events into visible evidence of their fitness and mandates to govern . indeed , by choosing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , to design a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of the aesthetics ’s twentieth-century totalitarianism .
if anything , the economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger ever since . but it has also made the subjects less pertinent , and has diminished both its legitimacy and its credibility . in order to regain credibility , economics needs a more open form of criticism of assumptions , methods , and outcomes . the inconvenient truths spoken by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely . economists today no longer see much public questioning the right questions , or seek to answer them with integrity .
and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability , and global leadership . china , on the other hand , is both dynamic and outward-looking – providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( like sustainable infrastructure all over eurasia ) and the spd . europe is in the throes of a psychologically unstable president , plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority .
other than the presence of just a couple of people ’s liberation army soldiers , one would have been hard-pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime , or of its founder , mao zedong . equally significant was china ’s projection as the nascent leader of the new international cultural order . in keeping with china ’s recent efforts to project its “ soft ” side , an opening ceremony produced the notion of a historic but dynamic culture at its best . a “ bird ’s ’s nest ” stadium was the creation of the supranational design team of herzog and de meuron , with its suggestions by the visual performer weiwei . many of the artists involved in setting up the spectacle , including the fireworks specialist cai guo qiang , the france star shen wei , and the composer tan dun won their glory mainly in the west .
one of the most powerful ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is by promoting financial autonomy . my own research , covering thousands of interviews with india ’s women from burkina faso to burkina faso , centered on just one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? in many areas , this means supporting “ informal savings ” groups , ” ” ” ” ” ” networks of like-minded women paying dues to construct a shared pool of resources . that money may then be attracted to fund any number of items , such as small-scale business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs . the answer proved to be to help them do what they already do on their own .
thus , the summit ’s outcome has been a long way from a miracle , one that has come to mind . indeed , europeans should have understood that this viewpoint is sweeping the world , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative world government , but rather by the fact that the g8 days now seem numbered . politically and economically , china and india are more prominent today than some european g8 members . president putin ’s behavior at the summit clearly demonstrated what he thinks of europeans ; not overly so .
in most areas , the epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade income , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . though the eu contends that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the trade gains brought about by the epas , as negotiated , are likely to be concentrated in several agricultural products and excluded from least-developed countries . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established in order to compensate for some short-run losses . african leaders are right to be concerned , and they must be addressed . some will argue that the epas will actually buttress intra-african trade , weakening trade yields , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa .
in 1995 , for example , at the smithsonian institute in washington , dc , seeking to take a fresh view at the enola gay island , an aircraft that dropped an atomic bomb on hiroshima . it demonstrated how history can be presented and appreciated in totally different settings : from an american or japanese standpoint , no one makes up the facts or falsifying sources . the choice , and the mix of data , is a sufficient condition . john dower , the american historian and modern japan specialist , studied the issue at times of time . in 1995 , for americans , a heroic or triumphant account occurred in which the atomic bomb represents the ultimate blow against an aggressive , fanatic and savage enemy .
it will push the real issues down the road , rather than bringing an end to the brexit debate . moreover , johnson has already disbanded a civil-service team that spearheaded earlier rounds of negotiations . that , in turn , is showing years to run . any new deal will be perhaps ’s old deal with few bells and whistles . it would need to go together at the october 17 european council meeting , where european leaders are growing increasingly frustrated with the entire process .
poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán in particular , have been busily constructing illiberal intra-eu states . those movements , actively fomented by russia , have yielded homegrown political leaders , who are frighteningly – but not surprisingly – to resemble putin and erdoğan . and , as if our inability to secure stability in our own neighborhood was n’t bad enough , so did we allow right-wing populist and nationalistic movements to take place within the european union itself . too often , european leaders are shouting out of the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán in particular , have been busily constructing illiberal intra-eu states .
as the nature of work changes , so , too , must the nature of the benefits of benefits . delivering the benefits of security to all , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruptions , governments and private-sector actors need to work together to advance the innovative solutions that satisfy workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . achieving opportunities and security for all , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruptions , governments and private-sector actors need to work together to advance the innovative solutions that satisfy workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . a shared framework also needs to be designed , so that such programs can be scaled up and implemented in various contexts . for starters , delivering the benefits of points , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” for example , ” rather than denominated in a specific currency , would enable schemes to operate across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same .
rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers have been in awe of wall street ; brazil has no such hang on . moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil will respond to the crisis far different from mexico ’s . on the surface and well below , brazil has turned out to be a dramatic turning point : inflation is down to negligible levels . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are uneasy about their own worth of good , rather than prosperity for foreign investors . if and when the two sides turn out , brazilian policymakers are about to shed few tears for international investors .
but , while techniques already exist , success will require increasing the exploitation of no-till farming , embracing permaculture ’s principles , better management of wetlands , and using rotational grazing techniques , among others . transforming how people acquire and consume power and using land will require robust incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be locked in forests and soils . but there is no despair about this : there is still time to save our climate , and we must do so . the power of markets to drive the radical shifts in power and land use is great ; but , as the 2017 storm season should remind us , the climate emergency that we need to confront vigorous , urgent action .
several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – disagree about the details of such a plan , or have simply not turned them away . but , after former us president barack obama attempted to correct america ’s health-care catastrophe with a halfway range of measures , arguably the most politically feasible at that time , those vying for the democratic nomination are clearly having even more ambitious schemes . a few contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – disagree completely about the details of such schemes , or have simply not turned them away . many of the democratic candidates have called for the bulk of the expansion of government-funded health-care care . but , after former us president barack obama attempted to redress an american health-care catastrophe with halfway measures , the national health service , or otherwise – do n’t all imply just the same thing .
when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises that they make . voters are more likely to attract candidates with anti-establishment credentials , and they can safely be expected to deviate from prevailing policies . yet there is another explanation , one that is entirely consistent with rationality and self-interest . in economists ’ language , centrist politicians are facing the problem of asymmetrical information . they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe that leaders who appear no different from previous crops of politicians who had oversold them by globalization and pooh-hed their grievances ?
though kagame remains popular , his administration has been criticized for stifling free speech and human rights during the run-up to the popular vote . the conclusion that i draw is not that human rights matters , but rather that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable as long as the tradeoff proves sustained progress toward economic and institutional governance . politically , rwanda is a strong , disciplined , and organized organization . president paul kagame 's landslide reelection last year had more to do with power than democracy . nowadays , leaders in rwanda who are widely viewed as an african success story have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus attitude toward governance .
moreover , there is an obvious , shared , shared interest in doing just that : none benefits from widening systemic risk . it is this threshold , which appears to be under threat , that appears to be around the world . in terms of priorities , it is arguably more important for the g-20 governments to step up core systems that allow global flows than they are to be addressed in strictly economic terms . continued economic progress in the developing world and the reconstruction process in the advanced countries requires preventing local and regional conflicts from delivering major systemic shocks . cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital , which are its lifeblood rely on the threshold of safety , stability , and predictability .
if those charges are true , bank executives involved may fear that civil lawsuits would uncover evidence that could be used in criminal prosecutions . but , thanks to efforts by the new york times ’ attorney general , eric schneiderman , and others , serious discussion has begun in the united states about an out-paying court mortgage settlement among state attorney general generals and prominent financial-sector firms . talks between state officials , the obama administration , and the us banks are currently targeting reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclose on homes , and evicting their residents . washington , dc – – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that large banks have never been properly investigated for a subprime mortgage origination , reaggregation , and the securitization behavior that was central to the financial crisis and the loss of more than eight million jobs . but , with the attempt by the new york fed ’s attorney general , eric schneiderman , and others , serious discussion has begun in the united states about an out-paid court mortgage settlement among state-owned attorney generals and prominent financial-sector firms .
they are silent , with the exception of a baby whimpering and then their faces tell the story . others have cholera , and when the roadside dies there can be no one to bury them . they are silent , with the exception of the baby whimperiling now , but their face is telling the story . “ over the rivers and down the highways and , along with myriad jungle pathways , east pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage in india ” : the unorganized flow of refugees with few tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and the ragged clothes piled on their heads , carried out by the sick children and the aged . many are sick and covered by sores .
at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine , which drove european integration and kept it at the heart of the postwar multilateral system . the brexit vote in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the ultimate pillar of the crumbling world order . charges of currency manipulation and the threat of protectionist trade measures have intensified . now , the global spotlight is turning to france and its looming presidential election . with the uk giving world free trade in the 1850s , the eu has now decided to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are placing national sovereignty ahead of global public goods .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . yet , rather than receiving reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , interactions , and sexuality , we have simply been handed a book , told to read a specific chapter , leaving it to figure things out on our own . new york city – when i found a bright-eyed eighth grader in my homeland in my homeland – i was unable to wait for my first gender education class . in our early teens , my classmates , and i was just as curious as we were clueless about sex and sexuality . millions of young people worldwide now have similar experiences , often with severe adverse consequences .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , then what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already given a wake-up call to firms and policymakers worldwide . “ if the revolution is to come , ” let us rather than commit it , otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after nixon ’s shock , ” ” ” ” ” no one disputes that china has taken advantage of enormously today , an impoverished , autarkic country that nixon visited is history . it is the world ’s largest exporter in volume terms , and it is the world ’s second-largest economy . global reintegration into the us has turned china into an economic powerhouse . as the us echoes china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to reflect on how china will continue to fall short in overcoming systemic hurdles to its long-term success . china ’s presence is felt worldwide , from mines in africa to apple to the united states .
american president donald trump ’s trade war has rattled confidence , but this is nothing less than the downward shove to an economy that has already been slowing as it makes a shift away from exports – and investment-led growth toward a more sustainable domestic consumption-led economy . sadly , the option of avoiding a shift to consumer-led growth and continued support for exports and real-estate investment is not very appealing , either . a significant chinese slowdown may already be about to unfold . how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the inherent inconsistency between an ever-more centralized party-led party-led political system and the need for an increasingly decentralized , consumer-led economic system , long-term growth may have declined quite dramatically . indeed , china is already the dominant global exporter , with neither market-based space nor political tolerance to permit it to maintain its earlier pace of export-led expansion .
the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational deficiencies and its lack of democracy . a well-educated citizenry is also vital if young men and women are to acquire the skills they need to perform the kinds of jobs that today ’s global and competitive world demands . the arab world faces major challenges that can be fulfilled only through a more flexible , democratic political system . democracy , for example , requires an informed citizenry capable of questioning its own government . alas , rather than progress , what we are seeing is a cycle of insufficient educational opportunity that leads to insufficient economic opportunity .
but the seeds of this larger conflagration have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . with the kurds – the majority of them fleeing turkish bombs – the united nations security council has remained typically silent , whereas europeans have denounced all and all involved . absent any coherent policy , the terms were ripe for a crisis . the president threatened to tear up turkey ’s economy should it down what it allowed to do . as foreign-policy disaster progresses , this is one for recorded books .
it is well documented that europe and the united states have under-invested in infrastructure . and such an approach would cement the notion that advanced-country central bank policies are “ “ “ “ the only game in town , ” a relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility for pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices they control . from a macroeconomic perspective , infrastructure investment is twofer ” – twofer ” ” ” – boosts productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and where there are underutilized capacity , boosts demand , output , and employment with substantial short-run multiplier effects . but the <UNK> ter-money program – the fanciful thinking when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also represent a radical departure for policymakers , demanding an abundant level of prudence by citizen and investor perceptions , confidence , and robust governance structures . a less risk-averse and time-tested time-tested time-tested for stimulating demand would be a big surge in government-financed investment .
as a result , railroads are running out of money before running out of schedule . in a country where the rail passengers may not even expect an clean toilet , much less on-again , prime minister narendra modi spoke of introducing bullet trains , the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . in a country where the rail passengers ’ passengers may not even be expected to clean toilet , let alone on-stage , prime minister narendra modi spoke of introducing bullet trains , the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . and , if all of this were n’t bad enough , india ’s leadership does not seem to recognize the challenges that railroads present . in the past 30 years alone , just 317 of the 676 projects sanctioned by parliament have very little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improve safety standards , or hastening train .
a number of organizations have now emerged to bolster city governments ’ policy-making capacity – including michael bloomberg ’s administration ’s program of innovation , the fuse corps , scores for america , social finance , the third sector capital partners , and usafacts . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . indeed , there is the deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and right-leaning “ red ” states , where many reside . cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . under federalism , whether cooperative or not cooperatively ” ” ” cities often assumes that state and local governments pursue the same ends .
we need to look beyond these figures to identify who really is responsible for fomenting a policy climate , where blatant falsehoods and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse . for decades , this impresario with the right-wing political-entertainment complex coarsened us politics in the united kingdom and america – not to mention his home of australia – for gains and political clout . murdoch ’s newspapers and tv networks may just have patented the recipe for deceit , the dog-blowing politics that drove trump ’s rise , and the brexit vote . let ’s start with the “ patient zero ” of this kind in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario in the right-wing political-entertainment complex has been coarsened in politics in the united kingdom and america , not to mention his home australia – for gains and political influence .